(18) A North American Indian story.Once upon a time an Indian hunter built himself a house in the middleof a great forest, far away from all his tribe. for his heart was gentleand kind, and he was weary of the treachery and cruel deeds of thosewho had been his friends. So he left them, and took his wife and threechildren, and they journeyed on until they found a spot near to a clearstream, where they began to cut down trees, and to make ready theirwigwam. For many years they lived peacefully and happily in thissheltered place, never leaving it except to hunt the wild animals, whichserved them both for food and clothes. At last, however, the strong manfelt sick, and before long he knew he must die.So he gathered his family round him, and said his last words to them.'You, my wife, the companion of my days, will follow me ere many moonshave waned to the island of the blest. But for you, O my children, whoselives are but newly begun, the wickedness, unkindness, and ingratitudefrom which I fled are before you. Yet I shall go hence in peace, mychildren, if you will promise always to love each other, and never toforsake your youngest brother.'Never!' they replied, holding out their hands. And the hunter diedcontent.Scarcely eight moons had passed when, just as he had said, the wife wentforth, and followed her husband. but before leaving her children shebade the two elder ones think of their promise never to forsake theyounger, for he was a child, and weak. And while the snow lay thick uponthe ground, they tended him and cherished him. but when the earth showedgreen again, the heart of the young man stirred within him, and helonged to see the wigwams of the village where his father's youth wasspent.Therefore he opened all his heart to his sister, who answered: 'Mybrother, I understand your longing for our fellow men, whom here wecannot see. But remember our father's words. Shall we not seek our ownpleasures, and forget the little one?'But he would not listen, and, making no reply, he took his bow andarrows and left the hut. The snows fell and melted, yet he neverreturned. and at last the heart of the girl grew cold and hard, and herlittle boy became a burden in her eyes, till one day she spoke thus tohim: 'See, there is food for many days to come. Stay here within theshelter of the hut. I go to seek our brother, and when I have found himI shall return hither.'But when, after hard journeying, she reached the village where herbrother dwelt, and saw that he had a wife and was happy, and when she,too, was sought by a young brave, then she also forgot the boy alone inthe forest, and thought only of her husband.Now as soon as the little boy had eaten all the food which his sisterhad left him, he went out into the woods, and gathered berries and dugup roots, and while the sun shone he was contented and had his fill. Butwhen the snows began and the wind howled, then his stomach felt emptyand his limbs cold, and he hid in trees all the night, and only creptout to eat what the wolves had left behind. And by and by, having noother friends, he sought their company, and sat by while they devouredtheir prey, and they grew to know him, and gave him food. And withoutthem he would have died in the snow.But at last the snows melted, and the ice upon the great lake, andas the wolves went down to the shore, the boy went after them. And ithappened one day that his big brother was fishing in his canoe near theshore, and he heard the voice of a child singing in the Indian tone 'My brother, my brother!I am becoming a wolf,I am becoming a wolf!'And when he had so sung he howled as wolves howl. Then the heart ofthe elder sunk, and he hastened towards him, crying, 'Brother, littlebrother, come to me.' but he, being half a wolf, only continued hissong. And the louder the elder called him, 'Brother, little brother,come to me,' the swifter he fled after his brothers the wolves, andthe heavier grew his skin, till, with a long howl, he vanished into thedepths of the forest.So, with shame and anguish in his soul, the elder brother went back tohis village, and, with his sister, mourned the little boy and the brokenpromise till the end of his life.