There was once a farmer who suffered much at the hands of amoney lender. Good harvests, or bad, the farmer was always poor, themoney lender rich. At the last, when he hadn't a farthing left, farmerwent to the money lender's house, and said, "You can't squeeze waterfrom a stone, and as you have nothing to get by me now, you might tellme the secret of becoming rich.""My friend," returned the money lender, piously, "riches come fromRam ask _him_.""Thank you, I will!" replied the simple farmer. so he prepared threegirdle cakes to last him on the journey, and set out to find Ram.First he met a Brahman, and to him he gave a cake, asking him to pointout the road to Ram. but the Brahman only took the cake and went onhis way without a word. Next the farmer met a Jogi or devotee, and tohim he gave a cake, without receiving any help in return. At last, hecame upon a poor man sitting under a tree, and finding out he washungry, the kindly farmer gave him his last cake, and sitting down torest beside him, entered into conversation."And where are you going?" asked the poor man, at length."Oh, I have a long journey before me, for I am going to find Ram!"replied the farmer. "I don't suppose you could tell me which way togo?""Perhaps I can," said the poor man, smiling, "for _I_ am Ram! What doyou want of me?"Then the farmer told the whole story, and Ram, taking pity on him,gave him a conch shell, and showed him how to blow it in a particularway, saying, "Remember! whatever you wish for, you have only to blowthe conch that way, and your wish will be fulfilled. Only have a careof that money lender, for even magic is not proof against theirwiles!"The farmer went back to his village rejoicing. In fact themoney lender noticed his high spirits at once, and said to himself,"Some good fortune must have befallen the stupid fellow, to make himhold his head so jauntily." Therefore he went over to the simplefarmer's house, and congratulated him on his good fortune, in suchcunning words, pretending to have heard all about it, that before longthe farmer found himself telling the whole story all except thesecret of blowing the conch, for, with all his simplicity, the farmerwas not quite such a fool as to tell that.Nevertheless, the money lender determined to have the conch by hook orby crook, and as he was villain enough not to stick at trifles, hewaited for a favourable opportunity and stole the conch.But, after nearly bursting himself with blowing the conch in everyconceivable way, he was obliged to give up the secret as a bad job.However, being determined to succeed he went back to the farmer, andsaid, coolly, "Look here. I've got your conch, but I can't use it. youhaven't got it, so it's clear you can't use it either. Business is ata stand still unless we make a bargain. Now, I promise to give youback your conch, and never to interfere with your using it, on onecondition, which is this, whatever you get from it, I am to getdouble.""Never!" cried the farmer. "that would be the old business all overagain!""Not at all!" replied the wily money lender. "you will have yourshare! Now, don't be a dog in the manger, for if _you_ get all youwant, what can it matter to you if _I_ am rich or poor?"At last, though it went sorely against the grain to be of any benefitto a money lender, the farmer was forced to yield, and from that time,no matter what he gained by the power of the conch, the money lendergained double. And the knowledge that this was so preyed upon thefarmer's mind day and night, so that he had no satisfaction out ofanything.At last, there came a very dry season, so dry that the farmer's cropswithered for want of rain. Then he blew his conch, and wished for awell to water them, and lo! there was the well, _but the money lenderhad two!_ two beautiful new wells! This was too much for any farmerto stand. and our friend brooded over it, and brooded over it, till atlast a bright idea came into his head. He seized the conch, blew itloudly, and cried out, "Oh, Ram! I wish to be blind of one eye!" Andso he was, in a twinkling, but the money lender of course was blind ofboth, and in trying to steer his way between the two new wells, hefell into one, and was drowned.Now this true story shows that a farmer once got the better of amoney lender but only by losing one of his eyes.