Four men determined to leave Kashmir for another country, where they might be able to obtain greater wealth than it seemed possible for them to amass in "the Happy Valley."On a certain day they started all together, taking with them four thousand rupees, wherewith to trade. Each of the little company had an equal share in this sum of money, and they set forth with light hearts, full of hope that they would prosper and become exceeding rich.On the way it came to pass that the great deity, according to his mighty power and wisdom, caused a full grown golden tree to spring up suddenly, and to bring forth before their very eyes rich clusters of gold. Seeing this magnificent and valuable tree the four travelers became as men in a trance. They did not believe their own eyes.At length, however, seeing that it was so, and that there was no doubt about it, they changed their minds about traveling into a foreign country, and resolved to return back to their homes as soon as possible, taking with them the tree of gold. They reminded one another of their own Kashmiri proverb:If God intends to give, he will give at the door. but if he will not give, then what is the good of going a thousand kos (in search of money)?"We cannot contest the will of God," they said. "Therefore, since we have happed upon this golden tree, let us appropriate it and be glad forever."This was all very easy to decide, but how were they to arrange it? The tree was high and large and heavy. It must first be felled and cut up into bundles which they could carry.But how were they to perform all these without implements? Accordingly it was determined that two of the party should go to the nearest village and procure axes and saws and ropes, etc., while the other two remained behind to guard the treasure. Presently the two men appointed to go left for the tools.The remaining two meanwhile took counsel together as to how they could kill their partners."We will mix poison with their food," said one, "and then when they are disposed of we shall each have a double share of the gold."And they did so.Now it happened that the other two who were walking to the village for the tools and other neccessaries had also covenanted together by the way to slay the two partners who were left behind."We will slay them with one stroke of the axe," said one, "and then we shall obtain twice the quantity of treasure."In the course of a few hours they returned from the village with saws and axes, and at once, on arrival at the tree slew both of their partners. Each slew one with one stroke of his axe.They then commenced hewing down the tree. and this done, they soon cut up the branches. and then, thoroughly wearied with their great exertions, they sat down to rest and eat. Alas! They ate of the poisoned bread. In a little while a most overpowering sleep came upon both of them, a sleep from which they never awoke.A short time afterwards some other travelers passing by that way found the four corpses lying stretched out cold and stinking beneath the golden tree.