The Shee an Gannon was born in the morning, named at noon, and went inthe evening to ask his daughter of the king of Erin."I will give you my daughter in marriage," said the king of Erin. "youwon't get her, though, unless you go and bring me back the tidings thatI want, and tell me what it is that put a stop to the laughing of theGruagach Gaire, who before this laughed always, and laughed so loudthat the whole world heard him. There are twelve iron spikes out herein the garden behind my castle. On eleven of the spikes are the headsof kings' sons who came seeking my daughter in marriage, and all ofthem went away to get the knowledge I wanted. Not one was able to getit and tell me what stopped the Gruagach Gaire from laughing. I tookthe heads off them all when they came back without the tidings forwhich they went, and I'm greatly in dread that your head'll be on thetwelfth spike, for I'll do the same to you that I did to the elevenkings' sons unless you tell what put a stop to the laughing of theGruagach."The Shee an Gannon made no answer, but left the king and pushed away toknow could he find why the Gruagach was silent.He took a glen at a step, a hill at a leap, and travelled all day tillevening. Then he came to a house. The master of the house asked himwhat sort was he, and he said: "A young man looking for hire.""Well," said the master of the house, "I was going tomorrow to look fora man to mind my cows. If you'll work for me, you'll have a good place,the best food a man could have to eat in this world, and a soft bed tolie on."The Shee an Gannon took service, and ate his supper. Then the master ofthe house said: "I am the Gruagach Gaire. now that you are my man andhave eaten your supper, you'll have a bed of silk to sleep on."Next morning after breakfast the Gruagach said to the Shee an Gannon:"Go out now and loosen my five golden cows and my bull without horns,and drive them to pasture. but when you have them out on the grass, becareful you don't let them go near the land of the giant."The new cowboy drove the cattle to pasture, and when near the land ofthe giant, he saw it was covered with woods and surrounded by a highwall. He went up, put his back against the wall, and threw in a greatstretch of it. then he went inside and threw out another great stretchof the wall, and put the five golden cows and the bull without horns onthe land of the giant.Then he climbed a tree, ate the sweet apples himself, and threw thesour ones down to the cattle of the Gruagach Gaire.Soon a great crashing was heard in the woods, the noise of young treesbending, and old trees breaking. The cowboy looked around and saw afive headed giant pushing through the trees. and soon he was before him."Poor miserable creature!" said the giant. "but weren't you impudent tocome to my land and trouble me in this way? You're too big for onebite, and too small for two. I don't know what to do but tear you topieces.""You nasty brute," said the cowboy, coming down to him from the tree,"'tis little I care for you." and then they went at each other. Sogreat was the noise between them that there was nothing in the worldbut what was looking on and listening to the combat.They fought till late in the afternoon, when the giant was getting theupper hand. and then the cowboy thought that if the giant should killhim, his father and mother would never find him or set eyes on himagain, and he would never get the daughter of the king of Erin. Theheart in his body grew strong at this thought. He sprang on the giant,and with the first squeeze and thrust he put him to his knees in thehard ground, with the second thrust to his waist, and with the third tohis shoulders."I have you at last. you're done for now!", said the cowboy. Then hetook out his knife, cut the five heads off the giant, and when he hadthem off he cut out the tongues and threw the heads over the wall.Then he put the tongues in his pocket and drove home the cattle. Thatevening the Gruagach couldn't find vessels enough in all his place tohold the milk of the five golden cows.But when the cowboy was on the way home with the cattle, the son of theking of Tisean came and took the giant's heads and claimed the princessin marriage when the Gruagach Gaire should laugh.After supper the cowboy would give no talk to his master, but kept hismind to himself, and went to the bed of silk to sleep.On the morning the cowboy rose before his master, and the first wordshe said to the Gruagach were:"What keeps you from laughing, you who used to laugh so loud that thewhole world heard you?""I'm sorry," said the Gruagach, "that the daughter of the king of Erinsent you here.""If you don't tell me of your own will, I'll make you tell me," saidthe cowboy. and he put a face on himself that was terrible to look at,and running through the house like a madman, could find nothing thatwould give pain enough to the Gruagach but some ropes made of untannedsheepskin hanging on the wall.He took these down, caught the Gruagach, fastened him by the threesmalls, and tied him so that his little toes were whispering to hisears. When he was in this state the Gruagach said: "I'll tell you whatstopped my laughing if you set me free."So the cowboy unbound him, the two sat down together, and the Gruagachsaid: "I lived in this castle here with my twelve sons. We ate, drank, playedcards, and enjoyed ourselves, till one day when my sons and I wereplaying, a slender brown hare came rushing in, jumped on to the hearth,tossed up the ashes to the rafters and ran away."On another day he came again. but if he did, we were ready for him, mytwelve sons and myself. As soon as he tossed up the ashes and ran off,we made after him, and followed him till nightfall, when he went into aglen. We saw a light before us. I ran on, and came to a house with agreat apartment, where there was a man named Yellow Face with twelvedaughters, and the hare was tied to the side of the room near the women."There was a large pot over the fire in the room, and a great storkboiling in the pot. The man of the house said to me: 'There are bundlesof rushes at the end of the room, go there and sit down with your men!'"He went into the next room and brought out two pikes, one of wood, theother of iron, and asked me which of the pikes would I take. I said,'I'll take the iron one.' for I thought in my heart that if an attackshould come on me, I could defend myself better with the iron than thewooden pike."Yellow Face gave me the iron pike, and the first chance of taking whatI could out of the pot on the point of the pike. I got but a smallpiece of the stork, and the man of the house took all the rest on hiswooden pike. We had to fast that night. and when the man and his twelvedaughters ate the flesh of the stork, they hurled the bare bones in thefaces of my sons and myself. We had to stop all night that way, beatenon the faces by the bones of the stork."Next morning, when we were going away, the man of the house asked meto stay a while. and going into the next room, he brought out twelveloops of iron and one of wood, and said to me: 'Put the heads of yourtwelve sons into the iron loops, or your own head into the wooden one.'and I said: 'I'll put the twelve heads of my sons in the iron loops,and keep my own out of the wooden one.'"He put the iron loops on the necks of my twelve sons, and put thewooden one on his own neck. Then he snapped the loops one afteranother, till he took the heads off my twelve sons and threw the headsand bodies out of the house. but he did nothing to hurt his own neck."When he had killed my sons he took hold of me and stripped the skinand flesh from the small of my back down, and when he had done that hetook the skin of a black sheep that had been hanging on the wall forseven years and clapped it on my body in place of my own flesh andskin. and the sheepskin grew on me, and every year since then I shearmyself, and every bit of wool I use for the stockings that I wear Iclip off my own back."When he had said this, the Gruagach showed the cowboy his back coveredwith thick black wool.After what he had seen and heard, the cowboy said: "I know now why youdon't laugh, and small blame to you. But does that hare come herestill?""He does indeed," said the Gruagach.Both went to the table to play, and they were not long playing cardswhen the hare ran in. and before they could stop him he was out again.But the cowboy made after the hare, and the Gruagach after the cowboy,and they ran as fast as ever their legs could carry them tillnightfall. and when the hare was entering the castle where the twelvesons of the Gruagach were killed, the cowboy caught him by the two hindlegs and dashed out his brains against the wall. and the skull of thehare was knocked into the chief room of the castle, and fell at thefeet of the master of the place."Who has dared to interfere with my fighting pet?" screamed Yellow Face."I," said the cowboy. "and if your pet had had manners, he might bealive now."The cowboy and the Gruagach stood by the fire. A stork was boiling inthe pot, as when the Gruagach came the first time. The master of thehouse went into the next room and brought out an iron and a woodenpike, and asked the cowboy which would he choose."I'll take the wooden one," said the cowboy. "and you may keep the ironone for yourself."So he took the wooden one. and going to the pot, brought out on thepike all the stork except a small bite, and he and the Gruagach fell toeating, and they were eating the flesh of the stork all night. Thecowboy and the Gruagach were at home in the place that time.In the morning the master of the house went into the next room, tookdown the twelve iron loops with a wooden one, brought them out, andasked the cowboy which would he take, the twelve iron or the one woodenloop."What could I do with the twelve iron ones for myself or my master?I'll take the wooden one."He put it on, and taking the twelve iron loops, put them on the necksof the twelve daughters of the house, then snapped the twelve heads offthem, and turning to their father, said: "I'll do the same thing to youunless you bring the twelve sons of my master to life, and make them aswell and strong as when you took their heads."The master of the house went out and brought the twelve to life again.and when the Gruagach saw all his sons alive and as well as ever, helet a laugh out of himself, and all the Eastern world heard the laugh.Then the cowboy said to the Gruagach: "It's a bad thing you have doneto me, for the daughter of the king of Erin will be married the dayafter your laugh is heard.""Oh! then we must be there in time," said the Gruagach. and they allmade away from the place as fast as ever they could, the cowboy, theGruagach, and his twelve sons.They hurried on. and when within three miles of the king's castle therewas such a throng of people that no one could go a step ahead. "We mustclear a road through this," said the cowboy."We must indeed," said the Gruagach. and at it they went, threw thepeople some on one side and some on the other, and soon they had anopening for themselves to the king's castle.As they went in, the daughter of the king of Erin and the son of theking of Tisean were on their knees just going to be married. The cowboydrew his hand on the bride groom, and gave a blow that sent himspinning till he stopped under a table at the other side of the room."What scoundrel struck that blow?" asked the king of Erin."It was I," said the cowboy."What reason had you to strike the man who won my daughter?""It was I who won your daughter, not he. and if you don't believe me,the Gruagach Gaire is here himself. He'll tell you the whole story frombeginning to end, and show you the tongues of the giant."So the Gruagach came up and told the king the whole story, how the Sheean Gannon had become his cowboy, had guarded the five golden cows andthe bull without horns, cut off the heads of the five headed giant,killed the wizard hare, and brought his own twelve sons to life. "Andthen," said the Gruagach, "he is the only man in the whole world I haveever told why I stopped laughing, and the only one who has ever seen myfleece of wool."When the king of Erin heard what the Gruagach said, and saw the tonguesof the giant fitted in the head, he made the Shee an Gannon kneel downby his daughter, and they were married on the spot.Then the son of the king of Tisean was thrown into prison, and the nextday they put down a great fire, and the deceiver was burned to ashes.The wedding lasted nine days, and the last day was better than thefirst.