A rich man was once walking about in his garden. He was cheerful andhappy. Suddenly he noticed a small bird that had been captured in a smallnet. He took hold of it and was more than a little surprised when it beganto speak, saying, "Give me my freedom, dear man! Of what use is it to youto lock me in a cage? Looking at me will not please you, for I do not havebeautiful feathers. I cannot entertain you, for I do not sing like otherbirds. And I cannot provide you with nourishment. I am much too small forthat. But I will tell you three wise teachings if you will give myfreedom."The master of the garden looked at the little creature and said, "Ifyou do not sing then of course you cannot entertain me. Let me hear yourwisdom, and if it teaches me anything, I will give you your freedom."Then the little bird said, "First: Do not grieve over things that havealready happened. Second: Do not wish for that which is unattainable.Third: Do not believe in that which cannot be possible."Then the master of the garden said, "You have indeed taught mesomething. I will give you your freedom."Letting the bird fly away, he thought seriously about its words. Thenhe heard it laughing quietly. Its voice came from a tree where the birdwas sitting."Why are you laughing so cheerfully?" shouted the man."About my easily won freedom," answered the bird, "and more than that,about the foolishness of humans who believe they are smarter than allother creatures. If you had been smarter, only just as smart as I am, thenyou would now be the richest man.""How would that have been possible?" asked the master of thegarden.The bird replied, "If, instead of giving me my freedom, you had keptme, for in my body I have a diamond the size of a hen's egg."The man stood there as though he were petrified. After recovering fromthe surprise, he began to speak, "You think that you are happy because Igave you your freedom. But summer will soon be over and winter with itsstorms will arrive. The brooks will freeze over, and you will not be ableto find a single drop of water to quench your thirst. The fields will becovered with snow, and you will not find anything to eat. But I will giveyou a warm place where you can freely fly around, and you can have as muchwater and bread as you want. Come down, and I will show you that you arebetter off with me than with your freedom."Thus spoke the master of the garden, but the little bird laughed louderthan before, making the man even angrier."You are still laughing?" asked the man."Of course," replied the bird. "See, you gave me my freedom on accountof the teachings that I gave you, and now you are so foolish that you donot take the teachings to heart. I earned my freedom fairly, but youforgot my teachings after only a few minutes. You should not grieve overthings that have already happened, but still you are grieving that yougave me my freedom. You should not wish for things that you cannot obtain,and yet you want me, for whom freedom is my whole life, to voluntarilyenter a prison. You should not believe that which is impossible, and yetyou believe that I am carrying about inside my body a diamond as large asa hen's egg, although I myself am only half the size of a hen's egg."And with that the bird flew away.