Once a heathen and a Jew were walking along together, when the heathenremarked to the Jew, "My religion is better than yours.""Not so," replied the Jew. "on the contrary, mine is better than yours, asit is said: What nation is there so great that has statutes andjudgments so righteous as all this law. "The heathen then said, "Supposing it is decided my religion is better thanyours, then I will take your money. but if it be decided that yourreligion is better than mine, then you shall take my money."The Jew replied, "I agree to accept this condition."As they were walking along, Satan appeared to them in the form of an oldman. They thereupon asked him the question as to whose religion was thebetter. and he replied, "That of the heathen is the better."After they had proceeded a little farther, Satan appeared to them again,in the form of a young man. They put the same question, and they receivedthe same reply. When they had walked a little farther, he appeared to themagain in the form of another old man. On asking the same question again,the identical reply was once more given. The heathen therefore took theIsraelite's money.The Israelite then journeyed on in fear of his life, and lodged in theopen. When a third of the night had gone by, he heard some spiritsspeaking to each other. Two of them asked a third, "Where have you beentoday?" to which he replied, "I met a Jew and an Aramean, I laughed atthem and gave evidence in favor of the heathen."Then they asked another, "Where have you been today?" to which he replied,"I prevented the daughter of an emperor from giving birth, after she hadsuffered the pains of travail for seven days. But if they had taken somegreen leaves of the tree overhanging their throne, and had squeezed themupon her nose, she would have given birth immediately."They again addressed a third spirit, "Where have you been?"He replied, "I stopped up the well of a certain province. But if they hadtaken a black ox and had slaughtered it over the water, the well wouldhave been open again."The Jew gave great heed to their conversation. and, rising up early in themorning, he went to the country of the emperor spoken of, and found hisdaughter in travail. He then told one to take some green leaves of thetree overhanging their throne, and to squeeze them upon her nose. This wasdone, and she immediately gave birth. The king thereupon presented the Jewwith a large sum of money, because this was the only child he had.The Jew then journeyed to the country in which the stopped wells were tobe found, and told the people to take a black ox and slaughter it over thewell, after which the water would flow as usual. They did so, and thewater flowed. The inhabitants thereupon presented him with a large sum ofmoney.On the morrow he met the heathen who had taken his money, and the heathenexpressed his surprise by saying, "Have I not already taken all your moneyfrom you. how is it that you are such a rich man?" He then related to himwhat had happened."Then I will also go," he said, "and inquire of the people of that place."He therefore journeyed on and lodged in that field. but the three spiritscame and killed him, for it is said: The righteous is delivered out oftrouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead (Proverbs, 11:8).