Long, long ago, one bright autumn day in Japan, it happened, that apink faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along thebank of a river. As they were running about, the crab found arice dumpling and the monkey a persimmon seed.The crab picked up the rice dumpling and showed it to the monkey,saying:"Look what a nice thing I have found!"Then the monkey held up his persimmon seed and said:"I also have found something good! Look!"Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had nouse for the seed he had just found. The persimmon seed is as hard anduneatable as a stone. He, therefore, in his greedy nature, felt veryenvious of the crab's nice dumpling, and he proposed an exchange. Thecrab naturally did not see why he should give up his prize for a hardstone like seed, and would not consent to the monkey's proposition.Then the cunning monkey began to persuade the crab, saying:"How unwise you are not to think of the future! Your rice dumpling canbe eaten now, and is certainly much bigger than my seed. but if you sowthis seed in the ground it will soon grow and become a great tree in afew years, and bear an abundance of fine ripe persimmons year afteryear. If only I could show it to you then with the yellow fruit hangingon its branches! Of course, if you don't believe me I shall sow itmyself. though I am sure, later on, you will be very sorry that you didnot take my advice."The simple minded crab could not resist the monkey's clever persuasion.He at last gave in and consented to the monkey's proposal, and theexchange was made. The greedy monkey soon gobbled up the dumpling, andwith great reluctance gave up the persimmon seed to the crab. He wouldhave liked to keep that too, but he was afraid of making the crab angryand of being pinched by his sharp scissor like claws. They thenseparated, the monkey going home to his forest trees and the crab tohis stones along the river side. As soon as the crab reached home heput the persimmon seed in the ground as the monkey had told him.In the following spring the crab was delighted to see the shoot of ayoung tree push its way up through the ground. Each year it grewbigger, till at last it blossomed one spring, and in the followingautumn bore some fine large persimmons. Among the broad smooth greenleaves the fruit hung like golden balls, and as they ripened theymellowed to a deep orange. It was the little crab's pleasure to go outday by day and sit in the sun and put out his long eyes in the same wayas a snail puts out its horn, and watch the persimmons ripening toperfection."How delicious they will be to eat!" he said to himself.At last, one day, he knew the persimmons must be quite ripe and hewanted very much to taste one. He made several attempts to climb thetree, in the vain hope of reaching one of the beautiful persimmonshanging above him. but he failed each time, for a crab's legs are notmade for climbing trees but only for running along the ground and overstones, both of which he can do most cleverly. In his dilemma hethought of his old playmate the monkey, who, he knew, could climb treesbetter than any one else in the world. He determined to ask the monkeyto help him, and set out to find him.Running crab fashion up the stony river bank, over the pathways intothe shadowy forest, the crab at last found the monkey taking anafternoon nap in his favorite pine tree, with his tail curled tightaround a branch to prevent him from falling off in his dreams. He wassoon wide awake, however, when he heard himself called, and eagerlylistening to what the crab told him. When he heard that the seed whichhe had long ago exchanged for a rice dumpling had grown into a tree andwas now bearing good fruit, he was delighted, for he at once devised acunning plan which would give him all the persimmons for himself.He consented to go with the crab to pick the fruit for him. When theyboth reached the spot, the monkey was astonished to see what a finetree had sprung from the seed, and with what a number of ripepersimmons the branches were loaded.He quickly climbed the tree and began to pluck and eat, as fast as hecould, one persimmon after another. Each time he chose the best andripest he could find, and went on eating till he could eat no more. Notone would he give to the poor hungry crab waiting below, and when hehad finished there was little but the hard, unripe fruit left.You can imagine the feelings of the poor crab after waiting patiently,for so long as he had done, for the tree to grow and the fruit toripen, when he saw the monkey devouring all the good persimmons. He wasso disappointed that he ran round and round the tree calling to themonkey to remember his promise. The monkey at first took no notice ofthe crab's complaints, but at last he picked out the hardest, greenestpersimmon he could find and aimed it at the crab's head. The persimmonis as hard as stone when it is unripe. The monkey's missile struck homeand the crab was sorely hurt by the blow. Again and again, as fast ashe could pick them, the monkey pulled off the hard persimmons and threwthem at the defenseless crab till he dropped dead, covered with woundsall over his body. There he lay a pitiful sight at the foot of the treehe had himself planted.When the wicked monkey saw that he had killed the crab he ran away fromthe spot as fast as he could, in fear and trembling, like a coward ashe was.Now the crab had a son who had been playing with a friend not far fromthe spot where this sad work had taken place. On the way home he cameacross his father dead, in a most dreadful condition his head wassmashed and his shell broken in several places, and around his body laythe unripe persimmons which had done their deadly work. At thisdreadful sight the poor young crab sat down and wept.But when he had wept for some time he told himself that this cryingwould do no good. it was his duty to avenge his father's murder, andthis he determined to do. He looked about for some clue which wouldlead him to discover the murderer. Looking up at the tree he noticedthat the best fruit had gone, and that all around lay bits of peel andnumerous seeds strewn on the ground as well as the unripe persimmonswhich had evidently been thrown at his father. Then he understood thatthe monkey was the murderer, for he now remembered that his father hadonce told him the story of the rice dumpling and the persimmon seed.The young crab knew that monkeys liked persimmons above all otherfruit, and he felt sure that his greed for the coveted fruit had beenthe cause of the old crab's death. Alas!He at first thought of going to attack the monkey at once, for heburned with rage. Second thoughts, however, told him that this wasuseless, for the monkey was an old and cunning animal and would be hardto overcome. He must meet cunning with cunning and ask some of hisfriends to help him, for he knew it would be quite out of his power tokill him alone.The young crab set out at once to call on the mortar, his father's oldfriend, and told him of all that had happened. He besought the mortarwith tears to help him avenge his father's death. The mortar was verysorry when he heard the woful tale and promised at once to help theyoung crab punish the monkey to death. He warned him that he must bevery careful in what he did, for the monkey was a strong and cunningenemy. The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut (also thecrab's old friends) to consult them about the matter. In a short timethe bee and the chestnut arrived. When they were told all the detailsof the old crab's death and of the monkey's wickedness and greed, theyboth gladly consented to help the young crab in his revenge.After talking for a long time as to the ways and means of carrying outtheir plans they separated, and Mr. Mortar went home with the youngcrab to help him bury his poor father.While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself(as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them) on allhe had done so neatly. He thought it quite a fine thing that he hadrobbed his friend of all his ripe persimmons and then that he hadkilled him. Still, smile as hard as he might, he could not banishaltogether the fear of the consequences should his evil deeds bediscovered. IF he were found out (and he told himself that this couldnot be for he had escaped unseen) the crab's family would be sure tobear him hatred and seek to take revenge on him. So he would not goout, and kept himself at home for several days. He found this kind oflife, however, extremely dull, accustomed as he was to the free life ofthe woods, and at last he said:"No one knows that it was I who killed the crab! I am sure that the oldthing breathed his last before I left him. Dead crabs have no mouths!Who is there to tell that I am the murderer? Since no one knows, whatis the use of shutting myself up and brooding over the matter? What isdone cannot be undone!"With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about asslyly as possible near the crab's house and tried to hear theneighbors' gossip round about. He wanted to find out what the crabswere saving about their chief's death, for the old crab had been thechief of the tribe. But he heard nothing and said to himself:"They are all such fools that they don't know and don't care whomurdered their chief!"Little did he know in his so called "monkey's wisdom" that this seemingunconcern was part of the young crab's plan. He purposely pretended notto know who killed his father, and also to believe that he had met hisdeath through his own fault. By this means he could the better keepsecret the revenge on the monkey, which he was meditating.So the monkey returned home from his walk quite content. He toldhimself he had nothing now to fear.One fine day, when the monkey was sitting at home, he was surprised bythe appearance of a messenger from the young crab. While he waswondering what this might mean, the messenger bowed before him and said:"I have been sent by my master to inform you that his father died theother day in falling from a persimmon tree while trying to climb thetree after fruit. This, being the seventh day, is the first anniversaryafter his death, and my master has prepared a little festival in hisfather's honor, and bids you come to participate in it as you were oneof his best friends. My master hopes you will honor his house with yourkind visit."When the monkey heard these words he rejoiced in his inmost heart, forall his fears of being suspected were now at rest. He could not guessthat a plot had just been set in motion against him. He pretended to bevery surprised at the news of the crab's death, and said:"I am, indeed, very sorry to hear of your chief's death. We were greatfriends as you know. I remember that we once exchanged a rice dumplingfor a persimmon seed. It grieves me much to think that that seed was inthe end the cause of his death. I accept your kind invitation with manythanks. I shall be delighted to do honor to my poor old friend!" And hescrewed some false tears from his eyes.The messenger laughed inwardly and thought, "The wicked monkey is nowdropping false tears, but within a short time he shall shed real ones."But aloud he thanked the monkey politely and went home.When he had gone, the wicked monkey laughed aloud at what he thoughtwas the young crab's innocence, and without the least feeling began tolook forward to the feast to be held that day in honor of the deadcrab, to which he had been invited. He changed his dress and set outsolemnly to visit the young crab.He found all the members of the crab's family and his relatives waitingto receive and welcome him. As soon as the bows of meeting were overthey led him to a hall. Here the young chief mourner came to receivehim. Expressions of condolence and thanks were exchanged between them,and then they all sat down to a luxurious feast and entertained themonkey as the guest of honor.The feast over, he was next invited to the tea ceremony room to drink acup of tea. When the young crab had conducted the monkey to the tearoomhe left him and retired. Time passed and still he did not return. Atlast the monkey became impatient. He said to himself:"This tea ceremony is always a very slow affair. I am tired of waitingso long. I am very thirsty after drinking so much sake at the dinner!"He then approached the charcoal fire place and began to pour out somehot water from the kettle boiling there, when something burst out fromthe ashes with a great pop and hit the monkey right in the neck. It wasthe chestnut, one of the crab's friends, who had hidden himself in thefireplace. The monkey, taken by surprise, jumped backward, and thenstarted to run out of the room.The bee, who was hiding outside the screens, now flew out and stung himon the cheek. The monkey was in great pain, his neck was burned by thechestnut and his face badly stung by the bee, but he ran on screamingand chattering with rage.Now the stone mortar had hidden himself with several other stones onthe top of the crab's gate, and as the monkey ran underneath, themortar and all fell down on the top of the monkey's head. Was itpossible for the monkey to bear the weight of the mortar falling on himfrom the top of the gate? He lay crushed and in great pain, quiteunable to get up. As he lay there helpless the young crab came up, and,holding his great claw scissors over the monkey, he said:"Do you now remember that you murdered my father?""Then you are my enemy?" gasped the monkey brokenly."Of course," said the young crab."It was your father's fault not mine!" gasped the unrepentantmonkey."Can you still lie? I will soon put an end to your breath!" and withthat he cut off the monkey's head with his pitcher claws. Thus thewicked monkey met his well merited punishment, and the young crabavenged his father's death.This is the end of the story of the monkey, the crab, and thepersimmon seed.