Once upon a time there lived seven brothers and a sister. The brotherswere married, but their wives did not do the cooking for the family.It was done by their sister, who stopped at home to cook. The wivesfor this reason bore their sister in law much ill will, and at lengththey combined together to oust her from the office of cook and generalprovider, so that one of themselves might obtain it. They said, "Shedoes not go out to the fields to work, but remains quietly at home,and yet she has not the meals ready at the proper time." They thencalled upon their Bonga, and vowing vows unto him they secured hisgood will and assistance. then they said to the Bonga, "At midday whenour sister in law goes to bring water, cause it thus to happen, thaton seeing her pitcher the water shall vanish, and again slowlyre appear. In this way she will be delayed. Let the water not flowinto her pitcher, and you may keep the maiden as your own."At noon when she went to bring water, it suddenly dried up before her,and she began to weep. Then after a while the water began slowly torise. When it reached her ankles she tried to fill her pitcher, but itwould not go under the water. Being frightened she began to wail andcry to her brother:"Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my ankles,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip."The water continued to rise until it reached her knee, when she beganto wail again:"Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my knee,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip."The water continued to rise, and when it reached her waist, she criedagain:"Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my waist,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip."The water still rose, and when it reached her neck she kept on crying:"Oh! my brother, the water reaches to my neck,Still, Oh! my brother, the pitcher will not dip."At length the water became so deep that she felt herself drowning,then she cried aloud:"Oh! my brother, the water measures a man's height,Oh! my brother, the pitcher begins to fill."The pitcher filled with water, and along with it she sank and wasdrowned. The Bonga then transformed her into a Bonga like himself, andcarried her off.After a time she re appeared as a bamboo growing on the embankment ofthe tank in which she had been drowned. When the bamboo had grown toan immense size, a Jogi, who was in the habit of passing that way,seeing it, said to himself, "This will make a splendid fiddle." So oneday he brought an axe to cut it down. but when he was about to begin,the bamboo called out, "Do not cut at the root, cut higher up." Whenhe lifted his axe to cut high up the stem, the bamboo cried out, "Donot cut near the top, cut at the root." When the Jogi again preparedhimself to cut at the root as requested, the bamboo said, "Do not cutat the root, cut higher up." and when he was about to cut higher up,it again called out to him, "Do not cut high up, cut at the root." TheJogi by this time felt sure that a Bonga was trying to frighten him,so becoming angry he cut down the bamboo at the root, and taking itaway made a fiddle out of it. The instrument had a superior tone anddelighted all who heard it. The Jogi carried it with him when he wenta begging, and through the influence of its sweet music he returnedhome every evening with a full wallet.He now and then visited, when on his rounds, the house of the Bongagirl's brothers, and the strains of the fiddle affected them greatly.Some of them were moved even to tears, for the fiddle seemed to wailas one in bitter anguish. The elder brother wished to purchase it, andoffered to support the Jogi for a whole year if he would consent topart with his wonderful instrument. The Jogi, however, knew its value,and refused to sell it.It so happened that the Jogi some time after went to the house of avillage chief, and after playing a tune or two on his fiddle asked forsomething to eat. They offered to buy his fiddle and promised a highprice for it, but he refused to sell it, as his fiddle brought to himhis means of livelihood. When they saw that he was not to be prevailedupon, they gave him food and a plentiful supply of liquor. Of thelatter he drank so freely that he presently became intoxicated. Whilehe was in this condition, they took away his fiddle, and substitutedtheir own old one for it. When the Jogi recovered, he missed hisinstrument, and suspecting that it had been stolen asked them toreturn it to him. They denied having taken it, so he had to depart,leaving his fiddle behind him. The chief's son, being a musician, usedto play on the Jogi's fiddle, and in his hands the music it gave forthdelighted the ears of all who heard it.When all the household were absent at their labours in the fields, theBonga girl used to come out of the bamboo fiddle, and prepared thefamily meal. Having eaten her own share, she placed that of thechief's son under his bed, and covering it up to keep off the dust,re entered the fiddle. This happening every day, the other members ofthe household thought that some girl friend of theirs was in thismanner showing her interest in the young man, so they did not troublethemselves to find out how it came about. The young chief, however,was determined to watch, and see which of his girl friends was soattentive to his comfort. He said in his own mind, "I will catch herto day, and give her a sound beating. she is causing me to be ashamedbefore the others." So saying, he hid himself in a corner in a pile offirewood. In a short time the girl came out of the bamboo fiddle, andbegan to dress her hair. Having completed her toilet, she cooked themeal of rice as usual, and having eaten some herself, she placed theyoung man's portion under his bed, as before, and was about to enterthe fiddle again, when he, running out from his hiding place, caughther in his arms. The Bonga girl exclaimed, "Fie! Fie! you may be aDom, or you may be a Hadi of some other caste with whom I cannotmarry." He said, "No. But from to day, you and I are one." So theybegan lovingly to hold converse with each other. When the othersreturned home in the evening, they saw that she was both a human beingand a Bonga, and they rejoiced exceedingly.Now in course of time the Bonga girl's family became very poor, andher brothers on one occasion came to the chief's house on a visit.The Bonga girl recognised them at once, but they did not know who shewas. She brought them water on their arrival, and afterwards setcooked rice before them. Then sitting down near them, she began inwailing tones to upbraid them on account of the treatment she had beensubjected to by their wives. She related all that had befallen her,and wound up by saying, "You must have known it all, and yet you didnot interfere to save me." And that was all the revenge she took.