Hlakanyana met a boy tending some goats. The boy had a digging stickwith him. Hlakanyana proposed that they should pursue after birds, and theboy agreed. They pursued birds the whole day.In the evening, when the sun set, Hlakanyana said, "It is time now toroast our birds."The place was on the bank of a river.Hlakanyana said, "We must go under the water and see who will come outlast."They went under the water, and Hlakanyana came out last.The cunning fellow said, "Let us try again."They boy agreed to that. They went under the water. Hlakanyana came outquickly and ate all the birds. He left the heads only. Then he went underthe water again. The boy came out while he was still under the water.When Hlakanyana came out he said, "Let us go now and eat ourbirds."They found all the birds eaten.Hlakanyana said, "You have eaten them, because you came out of thewater first, and you have left me the heads only."The boy denied having done so, but Hlakanyana said, "You must pay formy birds with that digging stick."The boy gave the digging stick, and Hlakanyana went on his way.He saw some people making pots of clay. He said to them, "Why do younot ask me to lend you this digging stick, instead of digging with yourhands?"They said, "Lend it to us."Hlakanyana lent them the digging stick. Just the first time they stuckit in the clay it broke.He said, "You have broken my digging stick, the digging stick that Ireceived from my companion, my companion who ate my birds and left me withthe heads."They gave him a pot.Hlakanyana carried the pot till he came to some boys who were herdinggoats. He said to them, "You foolish boys, you only suck the goats. Youdon't milk them in any vessel. Why don't you ask me to lend you thispot?"The boys said, "Lend it to us."Hlakanyana lent them the pot. While the boys were milking, the potbroke. Hlakanyana said, "You have broken my pot, the pot that I receivedfrom the people who make pots, the people who broke my digging stick, thedigging stick that I received from my companion, my companion who ate mybirds and left me with the heads."The boys gave him a goat.Hlakanyana came to the keepers of calves said, "Allow us to suck thisgoat."Hlakanyana gave the goat into their hands. While they were sucking, thegoat died.Hlakanyana said, "You have killed my goat, the goat that I receivedfrom the boys that were tending goats, the boys that broke my pot, the potthat I received from the people who make pots, the people who broke mydigging stick, the digging stick that I received from my companion, mycompanion who ate my birds and left me with the heads."They gave him a calf.Hlakanyana came to the keepers of cows.He said to them, "You only suck the cows without letting the calf suckfirst. Why don't you ask me to lend you this calf, what the cows may beinduced to give their milk freely?"They said, "Lend us the calf."Hlakanyana permitted them to take the calf. While the calf was in theirhands it died.Hlakanyana said, "You have killed my calf, the calf that I receivedfrom the keepers of calves, the keepers of calves that killed my goat, thegoat that I received from the boys that were tending goats, the boys thatbroke my pot, the pot that I received from the people who make pots, thepeople who broke my digging stick, the digging stick that I received frommy companion, my companion who ate my birds and left me with the heads."They gave him a cow.Hlakanyana continued on his journey.