There were once three brothers who wished to marry. They said, "Let useach shoot an arrow, and each shall take his wife from the place where thearrow falls." They shot their arrows. those of the two elder brothers fellon noblemen's houses, while the youngest brother's arrow fell in a lake.The two elder brothers led home their noble wives, and the youngest wentto the shore of the lake. He saw a frog creep out of the lake and sit downupon a stone. He took it up and carried it back to the house. All thebrothers came home with what fate had given them. the elder brothers withthe noble maidens, and the youngest with a frog.The brothers went out to work. The wives prepared the dinner andattended to all their household duties. The frog sat by the fire croaking,and its eyes glittered. Thus they lived together a long time in love andharmony.At last the sisters in law wearied of the sight of the frog. When theyswept the house, they threw out the frog with the dust. If the youngestbrother found it, he took it up in his hand. if not, the frog would leapback to its place by the fire and begin to croak. The noble sisters didnot like this, and said to their husbands, "Drive this frog out, and get areal wife for your brother." Every day the brothers bothered the youngest.He replied, saying, "This frog is certainly my fate. I am worthy of nobetter. I must be faithful to it." His sisters in law persisted in tellingtheir husbands that the brother and his frog must be sent away, and atlast they agreed.The young brother was now left quite desolate. There was no one to makehis food, no one to stand watching at the door. For a short time aneighboring woman came to wait upon him, but she had not time, so he wasleft alone. The man became very melancholy.Once when he was thinking sadly of his loneliness, he went to work.When he had finished his day's labor, he went home. He looked into hishouse and was struck with amazement. The sideboard was well replenished.in one place was spread a cloth, and on the cloth were many differentkinds of tempting dishes. He looked and saw the frog in its placecroaking. He said to himself that his sisters in law must have done thisfor him, and went to his work again. He was out all day working, and whenhe came home he always found everything prepared for him.Once he said to himself, "I will see for once who is this unseenbenefactor, who comes to do good to me and look after me." That day hestayed at home. he seated himself on the roof of the house and watched. Ina short time the frog leaped out of the fireplace, jumped over to thedoors, and all around the room. Seeing no one there, it went back and tookoff the frog's skin, put it near the fire, and came forth a beautifulmaiden, fair as the sun. so lovely was she that the man could not imagineanything prettier. In the twinkling of an eye she had tidied everything,prepared the food, and cooked it. When everything was ready, she went tothe fire, put on the skin again, and began to croak. When the man saw thishe was very much astonished. he rejoiced exceedingly that God had grantedhim such happiness. He descended from the roof, went in, caressed his frogtenderly, and then sat down to his tasty supper.The next day the man hid himself in the place where he had been the daybefore. The frog, having satisfied itself that nobody was there, strippedoff its skin and began its good work. This time the man stole silentlyinto the house, seized the frog's skin in his hand and threw it into thefire. When the maiden saw this she entreated him, she wept, and she said,"Do not burn it, or you shall surely be destroyed," but the man had burnedit in a moment. "Now, if your happiness be turned to misery, it is not myfault," said the sorrow stricken woman.In a very short time the whole countryside knew that the man who had afrog now possessed in its place a lovely woman, who had come to him fromheaven.The lord of the country heard of this, and wished to take her from him.He called the beautiful woman's husband to him and said, "Sow a barnful ofwheat in a day, or give me your wife." When he had spoken thus, the manwas obliged to consent, and he went home melancholy.When he went in he told his wife what had taken place. She reproachedhim, saying, "I told you what would happen if you did burn the skin, andyou did not heed me. but I will not blame you. Be not sad. go in themorning to the edge of the lake from which I came, and call out, 'Motherand Father! I pray you, lend me your swift bullocks.' Lead them away withyou, and the bullocks will in one day plow the fields and sow the grain."The husband did this.He went to the edge of the lake and called out, "Mother and Father! Ientreat you, lend me your swift bullocks today." There came forth from thelake such a team of oxen as was never seen on sea or land.The youth drove the bullocks away, came to his lord's field, and plowedand sowed them in one day.His lord was very much surprised. He did not know if there was anythingimpossible to this man, whose wife he wanted. He called him a second time,and said, "Go and gather up the wheat you have sown, that not a grain maybe wanting, and that the barn may be full. If you do not do this, yourwife is mine.""This is impossible," said the man to himself. He went home to hiswife, who again reproached him, and then said, "Go to the lake's edge andask for the jackdaws."The husband went to the edge of the lake and called out, "Mother andFather! I beg you to lend me your jackdaws today." From the lake cameforth flocks of jackdaws. they flew to the plowed ground, each gathered upa seed and put it into the barn.The lord came and cried out, "There is one seed short. I know each one,and one is missing." At that moment a jackdaw's caw was heard. it camewith the missing seed, but owing to a lame foot it was a little late.The lord was very angry that even the impossible was possible to thisman, and could not think what to give him to do.He puzzled his brain until he thought of the following plan. He calledthe man and said to him, "My mother, who died in this village, took withher a ring. If you go to the other world and bring that ring back to me,it is well. if not, I shall take away your wife."The man said to himself, "This is quite impossible." He went home andcomplained to his wife. She reproached him, and then said, "Go to the lakeand ask for the ram."The husband went to the lake and called out, "Mother and Father! Giveme your ram today, I pray you." From the lake there came forth a ram withtwisted horns. from its mouth issued a flame of fire. It said to the man,"Mount on my back!"The man sat down, and, quick as lightning, the ram descended towardsthe lower regions. It went on and shot like an arrow through the earth.They traveled on, and saw in one place a man and woman sitting on abullock's skin, which was not big enough for them, and they were like tofall off. The man called out to them, "What can be the meaning of this,that this bullock skin is not big enough for two people?"They said, "We have seen many pass by like you, but none has returned.When you come back we shall answer your question."They went on their way and saw a man and woman sitting on an ax handle,and they were not afraid of falling. The man called out to them, "Are younot afraid of falling from the handle of an ax?"They said to him, "We have seen many pass by like you, but none hasreturned. When you come back we shall answer your question."They went on their way again, until they came to a place where they sawa priest feeding cattle. This priest had such a long beard that it spreadover the ground, and the cattle, instead of eating grass, fed on thepriest's beard, and he could not prevent it. The man called out, "Priest,what is the meaning of this? Why is your beard pasture for these cattle?"The priest replied, "I have seen many pass by like you, but none hasreturned. When you come back I shall answer your question."They journeyed on again until they came to a place where they sawnothing but boiling pitch, and a flame came forth from it   and this washell. The ram said, "Sit firmly on my back, for we must pass through thisfire." The man held fast. The ram gave a leap, and they escaped throughthe fire unhurt.There they saw a melancholy woman seated on a golden throne. She said."What is it, my child? What troubles you? What has brought you here?" Hetold her everything that had happened to him. She said, "I must punishthis very wicked child of mine, and you must take him a casket from me."She gave him a casket, and said, "Whatever you do, do not open this casketyourself. Take it with you, give it to your lord, and run quickly awayfrom him."The man took the casket and went away. He came to the place where thepriest was feeding the cattle. The priest said, "I promised you an answer.Hearken unto my words: In life I loved nothing but myself. I cared fornothing else. My flocks I fed on other pastures than my own, and theneighboring cattle died of starvation. Now I am paying the penalty."Then he went on to the place where the man and woman were sitting onthe handle of the ax. They said, "We promised you an answer. Hearken untoour words: We loved each other too well on earth, and it is the same withus here."Then he came to the two seated on the bullock skin, which was not bigenough for them. They said, "We promised you an answer. Hearken unto ourwords: We despised each other in life, and we equally despise each otherhere."At last the man came up on earth, descended from the ram, and went tohis lord. He gave him the casket and quickly ran away. The lord opened thecasket, and there came forth fire, which swallowed him up. Our brother wasthus victorious over his enemy, and no one took his wife from him. Theylived lovingly together, and blessed God as their deliverer.