Ibrahim, the most learned and pious man of the city, whom everybodyheld in esteem, fell on troubled days. To none did he speak of hissufferings, for he was proud and would have been compelled to refusethe help which he knew would have been offered to him. His noble wifeand five faithful sons suffered in silence, but Ibrahim was sorelytroubled when he saw their clothes wearing away to rags and theirbodies wasting with hunger.One day Ibrahim was seated in front of the Holy Book, but he saw notthe words on its pages. His eyes were dimmed with tears and histhoughts were far away. He was day dreaming of a region where hungerand thirst and lack of clothes and shelter were unknown. He sighedheavily and his wife heard."My dear husband," she said to him gently, "we are starving. You mustgo forth to seek work for the sake of our five little sons.""Yes, yes," he replied, sadly, "and for you, too, my devoted wife,but" and he pointed to his tattered garments "how can I go out inthese? Who will employ a man so miserably clad?""I will ask our kind neighbors to lend you some raiment," said hiswife, and although he made some demur at first, she did so and wassuccessful in obtaining the loan of a cloak which completely coveredIbrahim and restored to him his dignified appearance.His good wife cheered him with brave words. He took his staff and setout with head erect and his heart filled with a great hope. All peoplesaluted the learned Ibrahim, for it was not often he was seen abroadin the busy streets of the city. He returned their greetings withkindly smiles, but halted not in his walk. He had no wish to make anyclaims upon his fellow citizens, who would no doubt have gladlyassisted him. He desired to go among strangers and work so that heshould not be beholden to anyone.Beyond the city gates, where the palm trees grew and the camelstrudged lazily toward the distant desert, he was suddenly accosted bya stranger dressed as an Arab."O learned and holy man of the city," he said, "command me, for I amthy slave." At the same time he made a low bow before Ibrahim."My slave!" returned Ibrahim, in surprise. "You mock me, stranger. Iam wretchedly poor. I seek but the opportunity to sell myself, even asa slave, to any man who will provide food and clothing for my wife andchildren.""Sell not thyself," said the Arab. "Offer me for sale instead. I am amarvelous builder. Behold these plans and models, specimens of myskill and handiwork."From beneath the folds of his ample robes, the Arab produced a scrolland a box and held them out to Ibrahim. The latter took them,wonderingly. On the scroll were traced designs of stately buildings.Within the box was an exquisite model of a palace, a marvelous pieceof work, perfect in detail and workmanship. Ibrahim examined it withgreat care."I have never seen anything so beautiful," he admitted. "It is wroughtand fashioned with exceeding good taste. It is in itself a work ofart. You must indeed be a wondrous craftsman. Whence come you?""What matters that?" replied the Arab. "I am thy slave. Is there notin this city some rich merchant or nobleman who needs the services ofsuch talents as I possess? Seek him out and dispose of me to him. Tothee he will give ear. to me he will not listen."Ibrahim pondered over this strange request for a while."Agreed!" he said, at length.Together they returned to the city. There Ibrahim made inquiries inthe bazaar where the wealthy traders met to discuss their affairs, andsoon learned of a rich dealer in precious stones, a man of a multitudeof charitable deeds, who was anxious to erect an imposing residence.He called upon the jeweler."Noble sir," he said, "I hear that it is thy intention to erect apalace the like of which this city has not yet seen, an edifice thatwill be an everlasting joy to its possessor, a delight to all who gazeupon it, and which will bring renown to this city.""That is so," said the merchant. "You have interpreted the desire ofmy heart as if you had read its secret. I would fain dedicate to theuses of the ruler of this city a palace that will shed luster on hisname.""It is well," returned Ibrahim. "I have brought thee an architect andbuilder of genius. Examine his plans and designs. If they please thee,as assuredly they will, purchase the man from me, for he is my slave."The jeweler could not understand the plans on the scroll, but on themodel in the box he feasted his eyes for several minutes in speechlessamazement."It is indeed remarkable," he said at last. "I will give thee eightythousand gold pieces for thy slave, who must build for me just such apalace."Ibrahim immediately informed the Arab, who at once consented toperform the task, and then the pious man hastened home to his wife andchildren with the good news and the money, which made him rich for therest of his days.To the Arab the jeweler said, "Thou wilt regain thy liberty if thouwilt succeed in thy undertaking. Begin at once. I will forthwithengage the workmen.""I need no workmen," was the Arab's singular reply. "Take me to theland whereon I must build, and to morrow thy palace shall becomplete.""Tomorrow!""Even as I say," answered the Arab.The sun was setting in golden glory when they reached the ground, andpointing to the sky the Arab said: "Tomorrow, when the great orb oflight rises above the distant hills, its rays will strike the minaretsand domes and towers of thy palace, noble sir. Leave me now. I mustpray."In perfect bewilderment, the merchant left the stranger. From adistance he watched the man devoutly praying. He had made up his mindto watch all the night. but when the moon rose, deep sleep overcamehim and he dreamed. He dreamed that he saw myriads of men swarmingabout strange machines and scaffolding which grew higher and higher,hiding a vast structure.Ibrahim dreamed, too, but in his vision one figure, that of the Arab,stood out above all other things. Ibrahim scanned the features of thestranger closely. he followed, as it were, the man's every movement.He noticed how all the workmen and particularly the supervisors didthe stranger great honor, showing him the deference due to one of thehighest position. And with grave and dignified mien, the Arabresponded kindly. From the heavens a bright light shone upon thescene, the radiance being softest wherever the Arab stood.In his dream, it so appeared to Ibrahim, he rose from his bed, wentout into the night, and approached the palace magically rising fromthe waste ground beyond the city. Nearer and nearer his footsteps tookhim, until he stood beside the Arab again. One of the chief workmenapproached and addressed the stranger by name!Then it was Ibrahim understood and he awoke. The sun was streaming inthrough the lattice of his bedroom. He sprang from his bed and lookedout upon a magnificent spectacle. Beyond the city the sun's rays werereflected by a dazzling array of gilded cupolas and glittering spires,the towers of the palace of marble that he had seen builded in hisdream. Instantly he went out and made haste to the palace to assurehimself that his dream was really over. Ibrahim and the jewelerarrived before the gates at the same moment. They stood speechlesswith amazement and admiration before the model of the Arab grown toimmense proportions.Almost at the same moment, the gates, ornamented with beaten gold,opened from within and the Arab stood before them. Ibrahim bent lowhis head.The Arab addressed the merchant."Have I fulfilled my promise and earned my freedom?" he asked."Verily thou hast," answered the merchant."Then farewell, and may blessings rest on thee and the good Ibrahimand on all your works."Thus spoke the Arab, raising his hands in benediction. Then hedisappeared within the golden doors.The jeweler and Ibrahim followed quickly, but though they hastenedthrough the halls and corridors of many colored marbles, in and out ofrooms lighted by windows of clearest crystal, and up and downstaircases of burnished metal, they could find no one. Emerging intothe open again, they saw a huge crowd standing in wonderment beforethe gates."Tell me," said the jeweler, "who was the builder of this magicpalace.""Elijah, the Prophet," said Ibrahim, "the benefactor of mankind, whorevisits the earth to assist in their distress those deemed worthy.Blessed am I, and blessed art thou for thy good deeds, for we havebeen truly honored."To show his gratitude, the merchant gave a banquet in his palace toall the people in the city and scattered gold and silver pieces amongthe crowds that thronged the streets.