There were 10,000 wagons rolling along the turnpike road, in each wagonthere were 10,000 casks, in each cask 10,000 bags, in each bag 10,000poppy seeds, in each poppy seed 10,000 lightnings. May all thesethunderous lightnings strike him who won't listen to my tale, which I havebrought from beyond the Operencian Sea!There was once, it doesn't matter where: there was once upon a time, apoor man who had a pretty young wife. they were very fond of each other.The only thing they had to complain of was their poverty, as neither ofthem owned a farthing. it happened, therefore, sometimes, that theyquarreled a little, and then they always cast it in each other's teeththat they hadn't got anything to bless themselves with. But still theyloved each other.One evening the woman came home much earlier than her husband and wentinto the kitchen and lighted the fire, although she had nothing to cook."I think I can cook a little soup, at least, for my husband. It will beready by the time he comes home."But no sooner had she put the kettle over the fire, and a few logs of woodon the fire in order to make the water boil quicker, than her husbandarrived home and took his seat by the side of her on the little bench.They warmed themselves by the fire, as it was late in the autumn and cold.In the neighboring village they had commenced the vintage on that veryday."Do you know the news, wife?" inquired he."No, I don't. I've heard nothing. Tell me what it is.""As I was coming from the squire's maize field, I saw in the dark, in thedistance, a black spot on the road. I couldn't make out what it was, so Iwent nearer, and lo! do you know what it was?   A beautiful little goldencarriage, with a pretty little woman inside, and four fine black dogsharnessed to it.""You're joking," interrupted the wife."I'm not, indeed, it's perfectly true. You know how muddy the roads abouthere are. it happened that the dogs stuck fast with the carriage and theycouldn't move from the spot. the little woman didn't care to get out intothe mud, as she was afraid of soiling her golden dress. At first, when Ifound out what it was, I had a good mind to run away, as I took her for anevil spirit, but she called out after me and implored me to help her outof the mud. she promised that no harm should come to me, but on thecontrary she would reward me. So I thought that it would be a good thingfor us if she could help us in our poverty. and with my assistance thedogs dragged her carriage out of the mud. The woman asked me whether I wasmarried. I told her I was. And she asked me if I was rich. I replied, notat all. I didn't think, I said, that there were two people in our villagewho were poorer than we. 'That can be remedied,' replied she. 'I willfulfill three wishes that your wife may propose.' And she left as suddenlyas if dragons had kidnapped her. She was a fairy.""Well, she made a regular fool of you!""That remains to be seen. You must try and wish something, my dear wife."Thereupon the woman without much thought said, "Well, I should like tohave some sausage, and we could cook it beautifully on this nice fire."No sooner were the words uttered than a frying pan came down the chimney,and in it a sausage of such length that it was long enough to fence in thewhole garden.''This is grand!" they both exclaimed together."But we must be a little more clever with our next two wishes. how well weshall be off! I will at once buy two heifers and two horses, as well as asucking pig," said the husband. Whereupon he took his pipe from hishatband, took out his tobacco pouch, and filled his pipe. then he tried tolight it with a hot cinder, but was so awkward about it that he upset thefrying pan with the sausage in it."Good heavens! The sausage! What on earth are you doing! I wish thatsausage would grow on to your nose," exclaimed the frightened woman, andtried to snatch the same out of the fire, but it was too late, as it wasalready dangling from her husband's nose down to his toes."My Lord Creator help me!" shouted the woman."You see, you fool, what you've done, there! Now the second wish is gone,"said her husband. "What can we do with this thing?""Can't we get it off?" said the woman. "Take off the devil! Don't you seethat it has quite grown to my nose. You can't take it off.""Then we must cut it off," said she, "as we can do nothing else.""I shan't permit it. How could I allow my body to be cut about? Not forall the treasures on earth. But do you know what we can do, love? There isyet one wish left. You'd better wish that the sausage go back to the pan,and so all will be right."But the woman replied, " How about the heifers and the horses, and howabout the sucking pig? How shall we get those?""Well, I can't walk about with this ornament, and I'm sure you won't kissme again with this sausage dangling from my nose."And so they quarreled for a long time, till at last he succeeded inpersuading his wife to wish that the sausage go back to the pan. And thusall three wishes were fulfilled. and yet they were as poor as ever.They, however, made a hearty meal of the sausage. and as they came to theconclusion that it was in consequence of their quarrelling that they hadno heifers, nor horses, nor sucking pig, they agreed to live thenceforthin harmony together. and they quarreled no more after this. They got onmuch better in the world, and in time they acquired heifers, horses, and asucking pig into the bargain, because they were industrious and thrifty.