There were ance twa widows that lived on a small bit o' ground, whichthey rented from a farmer. Ane of them had twa sons, and the other hadane. and by and by it was time for the wife that had twa sons to sendthem away to seeke their fortune. So she told her eldest son ae day totake a can and bring her water from the well, that she might bake a cakefor him. and however much or however little water he might bring, thecake would be great or sma' accordingly. and that cake was to be a' thatshe could gie him when he went on his travels.The lad gaed away wi' the can to the well, and filled it wi' water, andthen came away hame again. but the can being broken the maist part ofthe water had run out before he got back. So his cake was very sma'. yetsma' as it was, his mother asked if he was willing to take the half ofit with her blessing, telling him that, if he chose rather to have thehale, he would only get it wi' her curse. The young man, thinking hemight hae to travel a far way, and not knowing when or how he might getother provisions, said he would like to hae the hale cake, com of hismother's malison what like. so she gave him the hale cake, and hermalison alang wi't. Then he took his brither aside, and gave him aknife to keep till he should come back, desiring him to look at it everymorning, and as lang as it continued to be clear, then he might be surethat the owner of it was well. but if it grew dim and rusty, then forcertain some ill had befallen him.So the young man set out to seek his fortune. And he gaed a' that day,and a' the next day. and on the third day, in the afternoon, he came upto where a shepherd was sitting with a flock o' sheep. And he gaed upto the shepherd and asked him wha the sheep belanged to. and the mananswered:"The Red Etin of IrelandAnce lived in Bellygan,And stole King Malcolm's daughter,The King of fair Scotland.He beats her, he binds her,He lays her on a band.And every day he dings herWith a bright silver wandLike Julian the RomanHe's one that fears no man.It's said there's ane predestinateTo be his mortal foe.But that man is yet unbornAnd lang may it be so."The young man then went on his journey. and he had not gone far when heespied an old man with white locks herding a flock of swine. and he gaedup to him and asked whose swine these were, when the man answered:"The Red Etin of Ireland" (Repeat the verses above.)Then the young man gaed on a bit farther, and came to another very oldman herding goats. and when he asked whose goats they were, the answerwas:"The Red Etin of Ireland" (Repeat the verses again.)This old man also told him to beware of the next beasts that he shouldmeet, for they were of a very different kind from any he had yet seen.So the young man went on, and by and by he saw a multitude of verydreadfu' beasts, ilk ane o' them wi' twa heads, and on every head fourhorns. And he was sore frightened, and ran away from them as fast as hecould. and glad was he when he came to a castle that stood on a hillock,wi' the door standing wide to the wa'. And he gaed into the castle forshelter, and there he saw an auld wife sitting beside the kitchen fire.He asked the wife if he might stay there for the night, as he was tiredwi' a lang journey. and the wife said he might, but it was not a goodplace for him to be in, as it belanged to the Red Etin, who was a veryterrible beast, wi' three heads, that spared no living man he could gethold of. The young man would have gone away, but he was afraid of thebeasts on the outside of the castle. so he beseeched the old woman toconceal him as well as she could, and not to tell the Etin that he wasthere. He thought, if he could put over the night, he might get away inthe morning without meeting wi' the beasts, and so escape. But he hadnot been long in his hidy hole before the awful Etin came in. and naesooner was he in than he was heard crying:"Snouk but and snouk ben,I find the smell of an earthly man.Be he living, or be he dead,His heart this night shall kitchen(1) my bread."(1) "Kitchen," that is, "season."The monster soon found the poor young man, and pulled him from his hole.And when he had got him out he told him that if he could answer himthree questions his life should be spared. The first was: WhetherIreland or Scotland was first inhabited? The second was: Whether man wasmade for woman, or woman for man? The third was: Whether men orbrutes were made first? The lad not being able to answer one of thesequestions, the Red Etin took a mace and knocked him on the head, andturned him into a pillar of stone.On the morning after this happened the younger brither took out theknife to look at it, and he was grieved to find it a' brown wi' rust. Hetold his mother that the time was now come for him to go away uponhis travels also. so she requested him to take the can to the well forwater, that she might bake a cake for him. The can being broken, hebrought hame as little water as the other had done, and the cake was aslittle. She asked whether he would have the hale cake wi' her malison,or the half wi' her blessing. and, like his brither, he thought it bestto have the hale cake, come o' the malison what might. So he gaed away.and everything happened to him that had happened to his brother!The other widow and her son heard of a' that had happened frae a fairy,and the young man determined that he would also go upon his travels, andsee if he could do anything to relieve his twa friends. So his mothergave him a can to go to the well and bring home water, that she mightbake him a cake for his journey. And he gaed, and as he was bringinghame the water, a raven owre abune his head cried to him to look, andhe would see that the water was running out. And he was a young man ofsense, and seeing the water running out, he took some clay and patchedup the holes, so that he brought home enough water to bake a large cake.When his mother put it to him to take the half cake wi' her blessing,he took it in preference to having the hale wi' her malison. and yet thehalf was bigger than what the other lads had got a'thegither.So he gaed away on his journey. and after he had traveled a far way hemet wi' an auld woman, that asked him if he would give her a bit of hisbannock. And he said he would gladly do that, and so he gave her a pieceof the bannock. and for that she gied him a magical wand, that she saidmight yet be of service to him if he took care to use it rightly. Thenthe auld woman, who was a fairy, told him a great deal that whouldhappen to him, and what he ought to do in a' circumstances. and afterthat she vanished in an instant out o' his sight. He gaed on a great wayfarther, and then he came up to the old man herding the sheep. and whenhe asked whose sheep these were, the answer was:"The Red Etin of IrelandAnce lived in Bellygan,And stole King Malcolm's daughter,The King of fair Scotland.He beats her, he binds her,He lays her on a band.And every day he dings herWith a bright silver wand.Like Julian the Roman,He's one that fears no man,But now I fear his end is near,And destiny at hand.And you're to be, I plainly see,The heir of all his land."(Repeat the same inquiries to the man attending the swine and the manattending the goats, with the same answer in each case.)When he came to the place where the monstrous beasts were standing, hedid not stop nor run away, but went boldly through among them. One cameup roaring with open mouth to devour him, when he struck it with hiswand, and laid it in an instant dead at his feet. He soon came to theEtin's castle, where he knocked, and was admitted. The auld woman thatsat by the fire warned him of the terrible Etin, and what had been thefate of the twa brithers. but he was not to be daunted. The monster sooncame in, saying:"Snouk but and snouk ben,I find the smell of an earthly man.Be he living, or be he dead,His heart shall be kitchen to my bread."He quickly espied the young man, and bade him come forth on the floor.And then he put the three questions to him, but the young man had beentold everything by the good fairy, so he was able to answer all thequestions. When the Etin found this he knew that his power was gone. Theyoung man then took up the axe and hewed off the monster's three heads.He next asked the old woman to show him where the King's daughters lay.and the old woman took him upstairs and opened a great many doors, andout of every door came a beautiful lady who had been imprisoned there bythe Etin. and ane o' the ladies was the King's daughter. She also tookhim down into a low room, and there stood two stone pillars that he hadonly to touch wi' his wand, when his two friends and neighbors startedinto life. And the hale o' the prisoners were overjoyed at theirdeliverance, which they all acknowledged to be owing to the prudentyoung man. Next day they a' set out for the King's Court, and a gallantcompany they made. And the King married his daughter to the young manthat had delivered her, and gave a noble's daughter to ilk ane o' theother young men. and so they a' lived happily a' the rest o' theirdays.(1)(1) Chambers, Popular Traditions of Scotland.