An honest sculptor and his beautiful wife lived in a renowned city witha great cathedral. His work was always in demand, because there were manyconvents, monasteries, and churches in the city. The sculptor and his wifewould have been ever so happy, but for one problem. Her exquisite beautycaught the eye of many men, some of whom became increasingly bold in theirattempts to gain her favor. Three men in particular   a bishop, a priest,and a sexton   were so open and so forceful in their solicitations thatlife became quite unbearable for the sculptor and his faithful wife. Thesculptor, you see, feared that if any one of these three influential menwould turn against him it could ruin his thriving trade. And his wife, anhonorable and pious woman, was quite naturally offended by theirovertures.Finally the husband and wife devised a plan that would, they hoped, putan end to the unseemly advances and propositions.The next time that the bishop approached the sculptor's wife, insteadof giving her usual cool reply, she responded warmly, "Yes, it would begood if we could get to know one another better. My husband will be outthis afternoon. Why don't you come by at three o'clock for tea?" Thebishop, who could scarcely hide his eagerness and joy, accepted theinvitation and left.Then came the priest, and he too was delighted when his solicitationreceived an unexpectedly warm response. He too received an invitation fortea, but he was to come at half past three. The sexton came last, and hetoo was invited, but for four o'clock.Three o'clock arrived and the bishop, true to his word, was as punctualas a church bell. "You must be very uncomfortable in that heavy, scratchyrobe," purred the sculptor's wife, as they drank their tea. "Do makeyourself at ease." He needed no further encouragement, and began to takeoff his clothes. Just as the last item fell, there came a knock at thedoor."Heaven help us!" cried the woman. "It's my husband! Quick, hide in thecloset." The bishop, naked as a fish, fled to the closet.The woman regained her composure and went to the door. It was, ofcourse, the priest, as punctual as a church bell. A half hour later hetoo, having been encouraged by the sculptor's wife, had removed hisclothes, just in time to hear a knock at the door. The previous scenerepeated itself, and within seconds the naked priest had joined the nakedbishop in the closet.The sexton did not fare any better. He too, in grand anticipation, tookoff his clothes, only to be interrupted by a knock at the door. And hejoined his two naked brethren in the closet.This time it was indeed the husband returning home, and he had with himthree nuns, worthy sisters from a nearby convent who had ordered statuesof the three wise men for their sanctuary."I have just what you want," said the sculptor, leading the nuns to thecloset holding the three entrapped suitors. "These will fit perfectly inthe sanctuary," he added, opening the door with a flourish.The three suitors stood breathless, as if made from stone as the nunscame closer to examine the workmanship.First there was only silence, but then the senior sister said,hesitatingly, "Well, uh, we did have a somewhat different style in mind,perhaps something with a little less detail.""No problem!" exclaimed the sculptor. I can remove the excess detailsat once!" He approached the three suitors, hammer in one hand, chisel inthe other. And behold, the three statues suddenly came to life, boltedthrough the room, and disappeared out the door.The three nuns returned to their convent without any statues. The goodsisters there still give witness to the legend of the three stone saintsthat miraculously came to life.