Once upon a time three jars full of money were stolen from a raja'spalace. As all search was fruitless the raja at last gave notice thatwhoever could find them should receive one half of the money. The offerbrought all the jans (witch finders) and ojhas in thecountry to try their hand, but not one of them could find thetreasure.The fact was that the money had been stolen by two of the raja's ownservants, and it fell to the duty of these same two men to entertain theojhas who came to try and find the money. Thus they were able tokeep watch and see whether any of them got on the right track.Not far from the raja's city lived a certain tricky fellow. From hisboyhood he had always been up to strange pranks, and he had married thedaughter of a rich village headman. At the time that the raja's money wasstolen his wife was on a visit to her father, and after she had been sometime away, he went to fetch her home. However, on his way, he stopped tohave a flirtation with a girl he knew in the village, and the result wasthat he did not get to his father in law's house till long after dark. Ashe stood outside he heard his wife's relations talking inside, and fromtheir conversation he learned that they had killed a capon for supper, andthat there was enough for each of them to have three slices of capon andfive pieces of the vegetable which was cooked with it.Having learned this he opened the door and went in. The household wasamazed at his arriving so late at night, but he explained that he haddreamed that they had killed a capon and were having a feast, and thatthere was enough for them each to have three slices of capon and fivepieces of vegetable, so he had come to have a share. At this hisfather in law could do nothing but have another fowl killed and give himsupper. He was naturally astonished at the trickster's powers of dreamingand insisted that he must certainly go and try his luck at finding theraja's stolen money.The trickster was taken aback at this, but there was no getting out ofit. So the next morning he set out with his father in law to the raja'spalace. When they arrived they were placed in charge of the two guiltyservants, who offered them refreshments of curds and parched rice. As hewas washing his hands after eating, the trickster ejaculated, "Find orfail, I have at any rate had a square meal."Now the two servants were named Find and Fail, and when they heard whatthe trickster said, they thought he was speaking of them, and had by somemagic already found out that they were the thieves.This threw them into consternation, and they took the trickster asideand begged him not to tell the raja that they were the thieves. He askedwhere they had put the money, and they told him that they had hidden it inthe sand by the river. Then he promised not to reveal their guilt, if theywould show him where to find the money when the time came. They gladlypromised and took him the raja.The trickster pretended to read an incantation over some mustard see,and then taking a bamboo went along tapping the ground with it. He refusedto have a crowd with him ,because they would spoil the spell, but Find andFail followed behind him and showed him where to go. So he soon found thejars of money and took them to the raja, who according to his promise gavehim half their contents.