(15) From the German. Kletke.There was once upon a time a miller who was very well off, and had asmuch money and as many goods as he knew what to do with. But sorrowcomes in the night, and the miller all of a sudden became so poorthat at last he could hardly call the mill in which he sat his own. Hewandered about all day full of despair and misery, and when he lay downat night he could get no rest, but lay awake all night sunk in sorrowfulthoughts.One morning he rose up before dawn and went outside, for he thought hisheart would be lighter in the open air. As he wandered up and down onthe banks of the mill pond he heard a rustling in the water, and when helooked near he saw a white woman rising up from the waves.He realised at once that this could be none other than the nixy of themill pond, and in his terror he didn't know if he should fly away orremain where he was. While he hesitated the nixy spoke, called him byhis name, and asked him why he was so sad.When the miller heard how friendly her tone was, he plucked up heart andtold her how rich and prosperous he had been all his life up till now,when he didn't know what he was to do for want and misery.Then the nixy spoke comforting words to him, and promised that she wouldmake him richer and more prosperous than he had ever been in his lifebefore, if he would give her in return the youngest thing in his house.The miller thought she must mean one of his puppies or kittens, sopromised the nixy at once what she asked, and returned to his mill fullof hope. On the threshold he was greeted by a servant with the news thathis wife had just given birth to a boy.The poor miller was much horrified by these tidings, and went in tohis wife with a heavy heart to tell her and his relations of the fatalbargain he had just struck with the nixy. 'I would gladly give up allthe good fortune she promised me,' he said, 'if I could only save mychild.' But no one could think of any advice to give him, beyond takingcare that the child never went near the mill pond.So the boy throve and grew big, and in the meantime all prospered withthe miller, and in a few years he was richer than he had ever beenbefore. But all the same he did not enjoy his good fortune, for he couldnot forget his compact with the nixy, and he knew that sooner or latershe would demand his fulfilment of it. But year after year went by, andthe boy grew up and became a great hunter, and the lord of the land tookhim into his service, for he was as smart and bold a hunter as you wouldwish to see. In a short time he married a pretty young wife, and livedwith her in great peace and happiness.One day when he was out hunting a hare sprang up at his feet, and ranfor some way in front of him in the open field. The hunter pursued ithotly for some time, and at last shot it dead. Then he proceeded toskin it, never noticing that he was close to the mill pond, which fromchildhood up he had been taught to avoid. He soon finished the skinning,and went to the water to wash the blood off his hands. He had hardlydipped them in the pond when the nixy rose up in the water, and seizinghim in her wet arms she dragged him down with her under the waves.When the hunter did not come home in the evening his wife grew veryanxious, and when his game bag was found close to the mill pond sheguessed at once what had befallen him. She was nearly beside herselfwith grief, and roamed round and round the pond calling on her husbandwithout ceasing. At last, worn out with sorrow and fatigue, she fellasleep and dreamt that she was wandering along a flowery meadow, whenshe came to a hut where she found an old witch, who promised to restoreher husband to her.When she awoke next morning she determined to set out and find thewitch. so she wandered on for many a day, and at last she reached theflowery meadow and found the hut where the old witch lived. The poorwife told her all that had happened and how she had been told in a dreamof the witch's power to help her.The witch counselled her to go to the pond the first time there was afull moon, and to comb her black hair with a golden comb, and then toplace the comb on the bank. The hunter's wife gave the witch a handsomepresent, thanked her heartily, and returned home.Time dragged heavily till the time of the full moon, but it passed atlast, and as soon as it rose the young wife went to the pond, combedher black hair with a golden comb, and when she had finished, placed thecomb on the bank. then she watched the water impatiently. Soon she hearda rushing sound, and a big wave rose suddenly and swept the comb off thebank, and a minute after the head of her husband rose from the pond andgazed sadly at her. But immediately another wave came, and the head sankback into the water without having said a word. The pond lay still andmotionless, glittering in the moonshine, and the hunter's wife was not abit better off than she had been before.In despair she wandered about for days and nights, and at last, worn outby fatigue, she sank once more into a deep sleep, and dreamt exactly thesame dream about the old witch. So next morning she went again to theflowery meadow and sought the witch in her hut, and told her of hergrief. The old woman counselled her to go to the mill pond the nextfull moon and play upon a golden flute, and then to lay the flute on thebank.As soon as the next moon was full the hunter's wife went to themill pond, played on a golden flute, and when she had finished placed iton the bank. Then a rushing sound was heard, and a wave swept the fluteoff the bank, and soon the head of the hunter appeared and rose uphigher and higher till he was half out of the water. Then he gazed sadlyat his wife and stretched out his arms towards her. But another rushingwave arose and dragged him under once more. The hunter's wife, who hadstood on the bank full of joy and hope, sank into despair when she sawher husband snatched away again before her eyes.But for her comfort she dreamt the same dream a third time, and betookherself once more to the old witch's hut in the flowery meadow. Thistime the old woman told her to go the next full moon to the mill pond,and to spin there with a golden spinning wheel, and then to leave thespinning wheel on the bank.The hunter's wife did as she was advised, and the first night the moonwas full she sat and spun with a golden spinning wheel, and then leftthe wheel on the bank. In a few minutes a rushing sound was heard in thewaters, and a wave swept the spinning wheel from the bank. Immediatelythe head of the hunter rose up from the pond, getting higher and highereach moment, till at length he stepped on to the bank and fell on hiswife's neck.But the waters of the pond rose up suddenly, overflowed the bank wherethe couple stood, and dragged them under the flood. In her despair theyoung wife called on the old witch to help her, and in a moment thehunter was turned into a frog and his wife into a toad. But they werenot able to remain together, for the water tore them apart, and when theflood was over they both resumed their own shapes again, but the hunterand the hunter's wife found themselves each in a strange country, andneither knew what had become of the other.The hunter determined to become a shepherd, and his wife too became ashepherdess. So they herded their sheep for many years in solitude andsadness.Now it happened once that the shepherd came to the country where theshepherdess lived. The neighbourhood pleased him, and he saw that thepasture was rich and suitable for his flocks. So he brought his sheepthere, and herded them as before. The shepherd and shepherdess becamegreat friends, but they did not recognise each other in the least.But one evening when the moon was full they sat together watching theirflocks, and the shepherd played upon his flute. Then the shepherdessthought of that evening when she had sat at the full moon by themill pond and had played on the golden flute. the recollection was toomuch for her, and she burst into tears. The shepherd asked her why shewas crying, and left her no peace till she told him all her story. Thenthe scales fell from the shepherd's eyes, and he recognised his wife,and she him. So they returned joyfully to their own home, and lived inpeace and happiness ever after.