It was bitterly cold, the sky glittered with stars, and not abreeze stirred. "Bump" an old pot was thrown at a neighbor's door.and "bang, bang," went the guns. for they were greeting the NewYear. It was New Year's Eve, and the church clock was striking twelve."Tan ta ra ra, tan ta ra ra," sounded the horn, and the mail coachcame lumbering up. The clumsy vehicle stopped at the gate of the town.all the places had been taken, for there were twelve passengers in thecoach."Hurrah! hurrah!" cried the people in the town. for in every housethe New Year was being welcomed. and as the clock struck, they stoodup, the full glasses in their hands, to drink success to the newcomer. "A happy New Year," was the cry. "a pretty wife, plenty ofmoney, and no sorrow or care."The wish passed round, and the glasses clashed together tillthey rang again. while before the town gate the mail coach stoppedwith the twelve strange passengers. And who were these strangers? Eachof them had his passport and his luggage with him. they even broughtpresents for me, and for you, and for all the people in the town. "Whowere they? what did they want? and what did they bring with them?""Good morning," they cried to the sentry at the town gate."Good morning," replied the sentry. for the clock had strucktwelve. "Your name and profession?" asked the sentry of the one whoalighted first from the carriage."See for yourself in the passport," he replied. "I am myself." anda famous fellow he looked, arrayed in bear skin and fur boots. "I amthe man on whom many persons fix their hopes. Come to me to morrow,and I'll give you a New Year's present. I throw shillings and penceamong the people. I give balls, no less than thirty one. indeed,that is the highest number I can spare for balls. My ships are oftenfrozen in, but in my offices it is warm and comfortable. My name isJANUARY. I'm a merchant, and I generally bring my accounts with me."Then the second alighted. He seemed a merry fellow. He was adirector of a theatre, a manager of masked balls, and a leader ofall the amusements we can imagine. His luggage consisted of a greatcask."We'll dance the bung out of the cask at carnival time," saidhe. "I'll prepare a merry tune for you and for myself too.Unfortunately I have not long to live the shortest time, in fact,of my whole family only twenty eight days. Sometimes they pop me in aday extra. but I trouble myself very little about that. Hurrah!""You must not shout so," said the sentry."Certainly I may shout," retorted the man. "I'm Prince Carnival,travelling under the name of FEBRUARY."The third now got out. He looked a personification of fasting. buthe carried his nose very high, for he was related to the "forty(k)nights," and was a weather prophet. But that is not a verylucrative office, and therefore he praised fasting. In his button holehe carried a little bunch of violets, but they were very small."MARCH, March," the fourth called after him, slapping him on theshoulder, "don't you smell something? Make haste into the guardroom. they're drinking punch there. that's your favorite drink. Ican smell it out here already. Forward, Master March." But it wasnot true. the speaker only wanted to remind him of his name, and tomake an APRIL fool of him. for with that fun the fourth generallybegan his career. He looked very jovial, did little work, and hadthe more holidays. "If the world were only a little more settled,"said he: "but sometimes I'm obliged to be in a good humor, andsometimes a bad one, according to circumstances. now rain, nowsunshine. I'm kind of a house agent, also a manager of funerals. I canlaugh or cry, according to circumstances. I have my summer wardrobe inthis box here, but it would be very foolish to put it on now. Here Iam. On Sundays I go out walking in shoes and white silk stockings, anda muff."After him, a lady stepped out of the coach. She called herselfMiss MAY. She wore a summer dress and overshoes. her dress was a lightgreen, and she wore anemones in her hair. She was so scented withwild thyme, that it made the sentry sneeze."Your health, and God bless you," was her salutation to him.How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor aballad singer. no, but a singer of the woods. for she wandered throughthe gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement."Now comes the young lady," said those in the carriage. and outstepped a young dame, delicate, proud, and pretty. It was MistressJUNE, in whose service people become lazy and fond of sleeping forhours. She gives a feast on the longest day of the year, that theremay be time for her guests to partake of the numerous dishes at hertable. Indeed, she keeps her own carriage. but still she travelledby the mail, with the rest, because she wished to show that she wasnot high minded. But she was not without a protector. her youngerbrother, JULY, was with her. He was a plump young fellow, clad insummer garments and wearing a straw hat. He had but very littleluggage with him, because it was so cumbersome in the great heat. hehad, however, swimming trousers with him, which are nothing tocarry. Then came the mother herself, in crinoline, Madame AUGUST, awholesale dealer in fruit, proprietress of a large number of fishponds and a land cultivator. She was fat and heated, yet she could useher hands well, and would herself carry out beer to the laborers inthe field. "In the sweat of the face shalt thou eat bread," saidshe. "it is written in the Bible." After work, came the recreations,dancing and playing in the greenwood, and the "harvest homes." She wasa thorough housewife.After her a man came out of the coach, who is a painter. he is thegreat master of colors, and is named SEPTEMBER. The forest, on hisarrival, had to change its colors when he wished it. and how beautifulare the colors he chooses! The woods glow with hues of red and goldand brown. This great master painter could whistle like a blackbird.He was quick in his work, and soon entwined the tendrils of the hopplant around his beer jug. This was an ornament to the jug, and he hasa great love for ornament. There he stood with his color pot in hishand, and that was the whole of his luggage. A land owner followed,who in the month for sowing seed attended to the ploughing and wasfond of field sports. Squire OCTOBER brought his dog and his gunwith him, and had nuts in his game bag. "Crack, crack." He had a greatdeal of luggage, even an English plough. He spoke of farming, but whathe said could scarcely be heard for the coughing and gasping of hisneighbor. It was NOVEMBER, who coughed violently as he got out. He hada cold, which caused him to use his pocket handkerchief continually.and yet he said he was obliged to accompany servant girls to their newplaces, and initiate them into their winter service. He said hethought his cold would never leave him when he went out woodcutting,for he was a master sawyer, and had to supply wood to the wholeparish. He spent his evenings preparing wooden soles for skates, forhe knew, he said, that in a few weeks these shoes would be wantedfor the amusement of skating. At length the last passenger made herappearance, old Mother DECEMBER, with her fire stool. The dame wasvery old, but her eyes glistened like two stars. She carried on herarm a flower pot, in which a little fir tree was growing. "This tree Ishall guard and cherish," she said, "that it may grow large byChristmas Eve, and reach from the ground to the ceiling, to be coveredand adorned with flaming candles, golden apples, and little figures.The fire stool will be as warm as a stove, and I shall then bring astory book out of my pocket, and read aloud till all the children inthe room are quite quiet. Then the little figures on the tree willbecome lively, and the little waxen angel at the top spread out hiswings of gold leaf, and fly down from his green perch. He will kissevery one in the room, great and small. yes, even the poor childrenwho stand in the passage, or out in the street singing a carol aboutthe 'Star of Bethlehem.'""Well, now the coach may drive away," said the sentry. "we havethe whole twelve. Let the horses be put up.""First, let all the twelve come to me," said the captain onduty, "one after another. The passports I will keep here. Each of themis available for one month. when that has passed, I shall write thebehavior of each on his passport. Mr. JANUARY, have the goodness tocome here." And Mr. January stepped forward.When a year has passed, I think I shall be able to tell you whatthe twelve passengers have brought to you, to me, and to all of us.Now I do not know, and probably even they don't know themselves, forwe live in strange times.