I was living in Baghdad during the times of Al Mustansirbi'llah, Son of Al Mustazi bi'llah the then Caliph, aprince who loved the poor and needy and companied with thelearned and pious. One day it happened to him that he was wrothwith ten persons, highwaymen who robbed on the Caliph's highway,and he ordered the Prefect of Baghdad to bring them into thepresence on the anniversary of the Great Festival. So thePrefect sallied out and, making them His prisoners, embarked withthem in a boat. I caught sight of them as they were embarking andsaid to myself, "These are surely assembled for a marriage feast.methinks they are spending their day in that boat eating anddrinking, and none shall be companion of their cups but Imyself." So I rose, O fair assembly. and, of the excess of mycourtesy and the gravity of my understanding, I embarked withthem and entered into conversation with them. They rowed acrossto the opposite bank, where they landed and there came up thewatch and guardians of the peace with chains, which they putround the robbers' necks. They chained me among the rest of them.and, O people, is it not a proof of my courtesy and spareness ofspeech, that I held my peace and did not please to speak? Thenthey took us away in bilbos and next morning carried us allbefore Al  Mustansir bi'llah, Commander of the Faithful, who badesmite the necks of the ten robbers. So the Sworder came forwardafter they were seated on the leather of blood. thendrawing his blade, struck off one head after another until he hadsmitten the neck of the tenth. and I alone remained. The Caliphlooked at me and asked the Heads man, saying, "What ails theethat thou hast struck off only nine heads?". and he answered,"Allah forbid that I should behead only nine, when thou biddestme behead ten!" Quoth the Caliph, "Meseems thou hast smitten thenecks of only nine, and this man before thee is the tenth." "Bythy beneficence!" replied the Headsman, "I have beheaded ten.""Count them!" cried the Caliph and whenas they counted heads, lo!there were ten. The Caliph looked at me and said, "What made theekeep silence at a time like this and how camest thou to companywith these men of blood? Tell me the cause of all this, foralbeit thou art a very old man, assuredly thy wits are weak." Nowwhen I heard these words from the Caliph I sprang to my feet andreplied, "Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that I am the SilentShaykh and am thus called to distinguish me from my six brothers.I am a man of immense learning whilst, as for the gravity of myunderstanding, the wiliness of my wits and the spareness of myspeech, there is no end of them. and my calling is that of abarber. I went out early on yesterday morning and saw these menmaking for a skiff. and, fancying they were bound for a marriagefeast, I joined them and mixed with them. After a while up camethe watch and guardians of the peace, who put chains round theirnecks and round mine with the rest. but, in the excess of mycourtesy, I held my peace and spake not a word. nor was thisother but generosity on my part. They brought us into thypresence, and thou gavest an order to smite the necks of the ten.yet did I not make myself known to thee and remained silentbefore the Sworder, purely of my great generosity and courtesywhich led me to share with them in their death. But all my lifelong have I dealt thus nobly with mankind, and they requite methe foulest and evillest requital!" When the Caliph heard mywords and knew that I was a man of exceeding generosity and ofvery few words, one in whom is no forwardness (as this youthwould have it whom I rescued from mortal risk and who hath soscurvily repaid me), he laughed with excessive laughter till hefell upon his back. Then said he to me, "O Silent Man, do thy sixbrothers favour thee in wisdom and knowledge and spareness ofspeech?" I replied, "Never were they like me! Thou puttestreproach upon me, O Commander of the Faithful, and it becomesthee not to even my brothers with me. for, of the abundance oftheir speech and their deficiency of courtesy and gravity, eachone of them hath gotten some maim or other. One is a monocular,another palsied, a third stone blind, a fourth cropped of earsand nose and a fifth shorn of both lips, while the sixth is ahunchback and a cripple. And conceive not, O Commander of theFaithful, that I am prodigal of speech. but I must perforceexplain to thee that I am a man of greater worth and fewer wordsthan any of them. From each one of my brothers hangs a tale ofhow he came by his bodily defect and these I will relate tothee." So the Caliph gave ear to