Once upon a time a certain country was ravaged bya Rakhas to such an extent that there were only theRaja and a few ryots left. When things came to thispass, the Raja saw that something must be done: forhe could not be left alone in the land. Ryots need aRaja and a Raja needs ryots: if he had no ryots wherewas he to get money for his support: and he repeatedthe verse of the poet Kalidas:When the jungle is destroyed, the deer are in troublewithout jungle:When the Raja is destroyed, the ryots are in troublewithout their Raja:When the good wife of the house is destroyed,good fortune flees away.So thinking the Raja made a proclamation throughoutall the land that if any one could kill the Rakhas hewould reward him with the hand of one of his daughtersand half his kingdom. This proclamation was read outby the headman of a certain village to the assembledvillagers and among the crowd was a mischievous youth,named Jhalka, who when he heard the proclamation calledout that he could kill the Rakhas in ten minutes.The villagers turned on him, "Why don't you go and doso: then you would marry the Raja's daughter and weshould all bow down to you."At the thought of thisJhalka began to skip about crying, "I will finish himoff in no time."The headman heard him and took himat his word and wrote to the Raja that in his villagethere was a man who undertook to kill the Rakhas.When Jhalka heard this he hurried to the headmanand explained that he had only been joking."I cannot treat such things as a joke," answered the headman."Don't you know that this is a Raja's matter: to dealwith Rajas is the same as to deal with bongas : youmay make a promise to the bongas in jest, but theywill not let you off it on that plea. You are muchtoo fond of playing the fool."Ten or twelve days later sipahis came from the Rajato fetch Jhalka: he told them that he had only spokenin jest and did not want to go to the Raja, but theytook him away all the same.Before he started he picked out a well temperedbattle axe and begged his father to propitiate the bongasand pray that he might be saved from the Rakhas.When he was produced before the Raja, Jhalka againtried to explain that there had been a mistake, but theRaja told him that he would be taken at his word andmust go and kill the Rakhas. Then he saw that therewas nothing left for him but to put his trust in God:so he asked that he might be given two mirrors and alarge box and when these were brought he had thebox taken to the foot of a large banyan tree whichgrew by a ford in the river which flowed by the hillin which the Rakhas lived: it was at this ford that theRakhas used to lie in wait for prey.Left alone there Jhalka put one of the mirrors intothe box and then tightened his cloth and climbed thebanyan tree with his battle axe and the other mirror.He was not at all happy as he waited for the Rahkas,thinking of all the people who had been killed as theypassed along the road below the tree: however he wasdetermined to outwit the Rakhas if he could.All night long he watched in vain but just at dawn the Rakhasappeared. At the sight of him Jhalka shook so muchwith fright that the branches of the tree swayed. TheRakhas smelt that there was a human being about andlooking up into the tree saw the branches waving."Ha," said he, "here is my breakfast."Jhalka retorted "Ha! here is another Rakhas to match those I have got.""What are you talking about?" asked the Rakhas."I am glad to have met you at last" returned Jhalka."Why?" asked the Rakhas, "and what are you trembling for?""I am trembling with rage: we shall now see whetherI am to eat you or you are to eat me.""Come down and try.""No, you come up here and try."Jhalka would not leave the tree, and the Rakhas wouldnot climb it: so they waited.At last the Rahhas asked, "Who are you? I have seen a thousand men like you."And Jhalka answered, "Who are you? I have seen athousand like you."At this the Rakhas began to hesitateand wonder whether Jhalka was really his equal in strength,so he changed the subject and asked what the big boxwas."That is the box into which I put Rakhases likeyou when I catch them. I have got plenty more athome.""How many are there in the box?""Two or three."The Rakhas asked to see them, but Jhalka would notleave the tree until the Rakhas had sworn an oath todo him no harm. then he came down and opened thebox and made the Rakhas look into the mirror insidethe box. and he also held up the second mirror sayingthat there was another Rakhas.The Rakhas was fascinated at the sight of his own reflection. when he grinned or opened his mouth the reflection did the same. andwhile he was amusing himself with making differentgrimaces Jhalka suddenly cut him down with the battle axe, and he fell down dead.Then Jhalka cut off the ears and tongue and toes and hastened with them to the Raja. When it was found that the Rakhas wasreally dead the Raja assembled all his subjects and intheir presence married Jhalka to his daughter and madeover to him half the kingdom and gave him horsesand elephants and half of everything in his palace.