There was a merchant of the name of Bhudhara who lived in a town called Kundina. Unfortunately he lost all his money, and though it was not through any fault of his own, he was cut by all his family and relations.As it has been said "A rich man is wise. a rich man is generous. a rich man is the incarnation of virtue. a rich man is thought much of, and has no end of friends. But if his money go, everything else goes with it."So this Bhudhara having lost everything that he possessed except some weights and scales, went away to another country, leaving the relics of this property in the care of a friend, who was also a merchant. After a time he made another fortune and returned to his own country. The first thing he did was to go to his friend and ask for the weights and scales.The merchant did not want to give them up, and after some demur he said: "Really I am very sorry, but they have been eaten by the mice."Bhudhara said nothing but bided his time, and one day soon after this he was walking by the merchant's house, and saw his boy playing outside. Bhudhara promptly kidnapped the boy.The merchant was in a terrible state at the loss of his son, and started off with his whole family to try and find him.One of the neighbors met the party, who were full of weeping and lamentations, and said (hearing the cause of all this grief): "Oh! I know where the boy is. I saw him with Bhudhara."So they went to Bhudhara's house, and the father asked Bhudhara to give him up his son."My dear friend," replied Bhudhara, "I am really very sorry, but I cannot! Your boy was with me, we were walking along the bank of the river, when an eagle came and carried him off."On this the father grew very angry and had Bhudhara up before the magistrates, on the charge of having made away with his son.Bhudhara appeared to answer the charge, and when the judge asked him what he had to say, he replied: "My lord! in a place where the mice can eat up weights and scales of iron, an eagle might easily carry off an elephant   much more a boy."The magistrate who heard the case decided that when the merchant returned the weights and scales his boy should be restored to him, and so the end of it was that Bhudhara got back his weights and scales, and the merchant, though he recovered his boy, was punished for the theft.