Translated from the German of Hans Andersen.There was once a hard working student who lived in an attic, and he hadnothing in the world of his own. There was also a hard working grocerwho lived on the first floor, and he had the whole house for his own.The Goblin belonged to him, for every Christmas Eve there was waitingfor him at the grocer's a dish of jam with a large lump of butter in themiddle.The grocer could afford this, so the Goblin stayed in the grocer's shop.and this teaches us a good deal. One evening the student came in by theback door to buy a candle and some cheese. he had no one to send, so hecame himself.He got what he wanted, paid for it, and nodded a good evening to thegrocer and his wife (she was a woman who could do more than nod. shecould talk).When the student had said good night he suddenly stood still, readingthe sheet of paper in which the cheese had been wrapped.It was a leaf torn out of an old book a book of poetry'There's more of that over there!' said the grocer 'I gave an old womansome coffee for the book. If you like to give me twopence you can havethe rest.''Yes,' said the student, 'give me the book instead of the cheese. I caneat my bread without cheese. It would be a shame to leave the book tobe torn up. You are a clever and practical man, but about poetry youunderstand as much as that old tub over there!'And that sounded rude as far as the tub was concerned, but the grocerlaughed, and so did the student. It was only said in fun.But the Goblin was angry that anyone should dare to say such a thing toa grocer who owned the house and sold the best butter.When it was night and the shop was shut, and everyone was in bed exceptthe student, the Goblin went upstairs and took the grocer's wife'stongue. She did not use it when she was asleep, and on whatever objectin the room he put it that thing began to speak, and spoke out itsthoughts and feelings just as well as the lady to whom it belonged. Butonly one thing at a time could use it, and that was a good thing, orthey would have all spoken together.The Goblin laid the tongue on the tub in which were the old newspapers.'Is it true,' he asked, ' that you know nothing about poetry?''Certainly not!' answered the tub. 'Poetry is something that is in thepapers, and that is frequently cut out. I have a great deal more inme than the student has, and yet I am only a small tub in the grocer'sshop.'And the Goblin put the tongue on the coffee mill, and how it began togrind! He put it on the butter cask, and on the till, and all wereof the same opinion as the waste paper tub. and one must believe themajority.'Now I will tell the student!' and with these words he crept softly upthe stairs to the attic where the student lived.There was a light burning, and the Goblin peeped through the key holeand saw that he was reading the torn book that he had bought in theshop.But how bright it was! Out of the book shot a streak of light which grewinto a large tree and spread its branches far above the student. Everyleaf was alive, and every flower was a beautiful girl's head, some withdark and shining eyes, others with wonderful blue ones. Every fruit wasa glittering star, and there was a marvellous music in the student'sroom. The little Goblin had never even dreamt of such a splendid sight,much less seen it.He stood on tiptoe gazing and gazing, till the candle in the atticwas put out. the student had blown it out and had gone to bed, but theGoblin remained standing outside listening to the music, which verysoftly and sweetly was now singing the student a lullaby.'I have never seen anything like this!' said the Goblin. 'I neverexpected this! I must stay with the student.'The little fellow thought it over, for he was a sensible Goblin. Then hesighed, 'The student has no jam!'And on that he went down to the grocer again. And it was a good thingthat he did go back, for the tub had nearly worn out the tongue. It hadread everything that was inside it, on the one side, and was just goingto turn itself round and read from the other side when the Goblin camein and returned the tongue to its owner.But the whole shop, from the till down to the shavings, from that nightchanged their opinion of the tub, and they looked up to it, and had suchfaith in it that they were under the impression that when the grocerread the art and drama critiques out of the paper in the evenings, itall came from the tub.But the Goblin could no longer sit quietly listening to the wisdom andintellect downstairs. No, as soon as the light shone in the eveningfrom the attic it seemed to him as though its beams were strong ropesdragging him up, and he had to go and peep through the key hole. Therehe felt the sort of feeling we have looking at the great rolling sea ina storm, and he burst into tears. He could not himself say why he wept,but in spite of his tears he felt quite happy. How beautiful it must beto sit under that tree with the student, but that he could not do. hehad to content himself with the key hole and be happy there!There he stood out on the cold landing, the autumn wind blowing throughthe cracks of the floor. It was cold very cold, but he first found itout when the light in the attic was put out and the music in the wooddied away. Ah! then it froze him, and he crept down again into his warmcorner. there it was comfortable and cosy.When Christmas came, and with it the jam with the large lump of butter,ah! then the grocer was first with him.But in the middle of the night the Goblin awoke, hearing a great noiseand knocking against the shutters people hammering from outside. Thewatchman was blowing his horn: a great fire had broken out. the wholetown was in flames.Was it in the house? or was it at a neighbour's? Where was it?The alarm increased. The grocer's wife was so terrified that she tookher gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket in orderto save something. The grocer seized his account books. and the maid herblack silk dress.Everyone wanted to save his most valuable possession. so did the Goblin,and in a few leaps he was up the stairs and in the student's room. Hewas standing quietly by the open window looking at the fire that wasburning in the neighbour's house just opposite. The Goblin seized thebook lying on the table, put it in his red cap, and clasped it with bothhands. The best treasure in the house was saved, and he climbed out onto the roof with it on to the chimney. There he sat, lighted up by theflames from the burning house opposite, both hands holding tightly onhis red cap, in which lay the treasure. and now he knew what his heartreally valued most to whom he really belonged. But when the fire wasput out, and the Goblin thought it over then 'I will divide myself between the two,' he said. 'I cannot quite give upthe grocer, because of the jam!'And it is just the same with us. We also cannot quite give up thegrocer because of the jam.