There was once upon a time a charcoal burner who had a son, and he was also a charcoal burner. When the father died, the son got married, but he would not do any work, and he neglected also to look after his kilns, and very soon no one would have him to burn charcoal any more for them.But one day he had got a kiln of charcoal ready burnt, and he set out for town with some loads of it and sold them. When he had done his business, he loitered down some of the streets and looked about him. On his way home he fell in with some neighbors and other people from the same parish, and he talked and bragged to them about all that he had seen in town.The most remarkable thing he saw, he said, was the great number of parsons he met, and all the people in the streets took off their hats to them. "I wish I was a parson," he said, "perhaps the people would take off their hats to me too. now, they don't appear to see me at all.""Well, your clothes are black enough, anyhow," said his neighbors. "but now that we are on the way, we may as well call in at the sale at the old parson's, and get a glass with the others, and you can buy yourself a gown and ruff at the same time."Yes, he did so, and when he came home he hadn't a penny left."I suppose you have brought both money and good manners home with you from town this time?" said his wife."Good manners! yes, I should think so," said the charcoal burner. "Just look here! I am a parson now. Here is both the gown and the ruff!""Yes, very likely!" said his wife. "strong beer makes big words, it appears! You don't care how things go!""You shouldn't boast or bother about the coals you are burning, till they are ready," answered the husband.But one day a great many people, dressed like parsons, passed the charcoal burner's house on their way to the palace, and it was plain to see that something was going to take place there, so the charcoal burner thought he would go as well, and put on the old parson's clothes. His wife thought it would be wiser of him to stay at home, for even if he got the chance to hold a horse for some grand person, she was afraid the sixpence he got for it would vanish down his throat, which usually was the case."Yes, everybody talks about the drink, but no one about the thirst, do they, mother?" said the husband. "the more one drinks, the more one thirsts," and with that he started for the palace. All the strangers were invited to come into the presence of the king, and the charcoal burner entered with the others.The king then told them that he had lost his most costly ring, and he felt sure it had been stolen. He had therefore called together all the learned clergy in the country, to hear if any of them could tell him who the thief was. And the king promised that he would handsomely reward the one who could tell him about it. if he was a curate, he should get a living. if he was a rector, he should be made a dean. if he was a dean, he should be made a bishop. and if he was a bishop, he should be the first man after the king. So the king went from one to the other, and asked them all if they could tell him who the thief was, and when he came to the charcoal burner, he said, "Who are you?""I am the wise parson and the true prophet," said the charcoal burner."Then you can tell me who has taken my ring?" said the king."Well, it isn't beyond sense and reason, that what has happened in the dark might be brought to light," said the charcoal burner. "but it isn't every year that the salmon plays in the fir tops. I have now been studying and working for seven years to get bread for myself and my family, but I haven't got a living yet, so if the thief is to be found, I must have plenty of time and paper, for I must write and reckon early and late."Yes, he should have as much time and paper as he wished, if he only could find the thief.So he got a room to himself in the palace, and before long they found out that he must know something more than writing a sermon, for he used so much paper that it lay about in heaps. but there wasn't one who could make out a word of all he had written, for it was only pothooks and marks like a crow's toes. But the time wore on, and he could not find any trace of the thief.So the king got tired of waiting, and told him that if he couldn't find the thief in three days, he should lose his life."Ah, but he that rules must not be hasty, but wait till his temper cools," said the charcoal burner. "One can't begin and rake out the coals, till they are thoroughly burnt and the fire has gone out."But the king stuck to what he said, and the charcoal burner felt his life wasn't worth much. Now it so happened, that it was three of the king's servants who waited upon him day by day in turn that had stolen the ring between them.So one day, when one of the servants came into his room and cleared away the table after supper, and was just about leaving the room, the charcoal burner heaved a deep sigh and looked after him and said, "There goes the first of them." But he only meant the first of the three days he still had to live."This parson knows all about it," said the servant, when he got his comrades by themselves, and told them that the parson had said, "that he was the first of them."The second servant, who was to wait upon him the next day, was to notice what he would say then, and sure enough, as he was going out after having cleared the table, the charcoal burner gazed steadily at him, sighed and said, "There goes the second of them."So the third servant was to observe what happened the third day. it got worse and worse he thought, for when the servant came to the door and was going out with all the plates and dishes, the charcoal burner folded his hands and said, "There goes the third of them," and then he sighed as if his heart would break.The servant came breathlessly out to his comrades and told them it was clear enough that the parson knew all about it, and so they went into his room and fell on their knees before him, and prayed and begged of him, that he would not tell it was they who had taken the ring. they would give him a hundred dollars each, if he only would not bring them into trouble.He promised faithfully, that no one should get into trouble if he got the money, the ring, and a lump of porridge. He put the ring into the porridge, and told one of them to give it to the biggest pig belonging to the king.Next morning the king came. it was easy to see he would not be played with. he would know all about the thief."Well, I have written and reckoned far and wide," said the charcoal burner, "but I find it's not a man who has stolen the ring.""Pooh! Who is it then?" said the king. "Oh, it's that big pig which belongs to your majesty," said the charcoal burner.Well, they brought out the pig and killed it, and, sure enough, the ring was found inside it. So the charcoal burner got a living, and the king was so pleased that he gave him a farm and horse and a hundred dollars in the bargain.It did not take the charcoal burner long to move, and the first Sunday after he had settled in his parish he was going to church to read his first sermon. But before he started he had to get some breakfast, and so he put the sermon on the bread plate. but he made a mistake and took the sermon instead of the bread, and dipped it into the soup, and when he felt it was so tough to chew, he gave it all to his dog, and the dog made short work of it and swallowed it all.When he found out his mistake, he was at a loss what to do. But he had to go to church, for his congregation was waiting for him. and when he came there, he went straight up into the pulpit He put on such a grand air while he was getting ready for the sermon, that all thought he must be a very fine preacher. But when he did begin, it wasn't so very fine after all."The words, my dear brethren, which you were going to hear this day, have gone to the dogs. but come again, some other Sunday, my dear parishioners, and you shall hear something else! And thus endeth this sermon!"Well, all the people thought he was a queer parson, for they had never heard such a sermon. but then they thought he might improve, and if not   why, they would know how to deal with him.Next Sunday the church was so crowded by people who wanted to hear the new parson, that there was scarcely room for them all in the church. As soon as the parson arrived, he went straight up into the pulpit, and then he stood for some time without saying a word, but all at once he made a start and cried out, "I say, old mother Berit, why do you sit so far back in the church?""Oh, my boots are in such a bad state, your reverence!" said she."But you could have got an old pig's skin and made yourself a new pair of boots, and then you could have come to the front like other decent people. Besides, I wish you would all consider which way you are going, for I see that some of you, when you are coming to church, come from the north, and others come from the south, and the same when you leave church. but I suppose you stop and gossip on the way, and then they wonder at home what has become of you. Yea! who knows what will become of us all? And then I have to give notice, that the old parson's widow has lost her black mare. She had fetlocks round her hoofs, and a long mane, and more of this kind which I shan't mention in this place. And then I have a big hole in my old breeches pocket, which I know, but you don't! But whether any of you have a piece of some stuff, which would suit the hole, neither you nor I know."Some of the people were well satisfied with the sermon, and believed that he in time would make a good parson, but most of them thought it was really too bad. and when the dean came round on one of his visits, they complained to him of the parson and said that such sermons were never heard before, and one of them happened to recollect the last one about the old widow's mare and repeated it all to the dean."That was a very good sermon," said the dean. "He spoke very likely in parables and impressed upon you to seek the light and to shun the darkness and its deeds, when he spoke about those who were walking on the broad or the narrow road. and particularly do I consider his notice about the old widow's mare a splendid parable as to how it will fare with us all in the end. The breeches pocket with the hole in it referred to his wants, and the piece of stuff was the offerings and gifts he expected from his congregation," said the dean."Yes, we thought as much," they said. "It was all about his offerings, sure enough!"And so the dean said that he thought the parish had got such a good, sensible parson, that they should not complain of him, and the end was, that they got no other parson. but as time wore on he got worse instead of better, and so they complained to the bishop.Well, after a long time the bishop came round on a visitation, but the charcoal burner had been in the church the day before without anybody knowing of it, and had sawed the pulpit in several places, so it only hung together when one walked up the steps carefully.So when the congregation had assembled, and the parson was to preach before the bishop, he stole quietly up the steps and began his sermon in his usual style, but after having gone on for some time he spoke up, threw up his arms, and cried out, "If there is any one here, who has any evil deed or thought in his mind, it were better he left this place, for today, this very day, there will be a fall, the like of which has not taken place since the creation of the world." And with that he struck the pulpit with his hands, and down tumbled both pulpit and parson with such a crash, that the congregation took to their heels and ran out of the church, as if the day of judgment had come.So the bishop told the people that he wondered that the congregation could complain of a parson, who was so gifted and had such wisdom, that he could prophesy things that were to come. He thought he ought at least to be dean, and it was not long before he was made one. There was no help for it. they had to put up with him.Now it so happened, that the king and queen in that country had no children, but when the king heard that he was to have one he was curious to know whether he was to get a son and heir to his broad lands and acres, or if he only would get a princess. So all the learned men in the land were called to the palace to say which it would be. But as none of them were able to do this, both the king and the bishop happened to think of the new dean, and it did not take long till they had him brought before them and began questioning him. No, he could not tell, he said, for it wasn't easy to guess what no one could know anything about."Well, well!" said the king, "I don't care whether you know it or not. but you are the wise parson and the true prophet, who can foretell things to come, and if you won't tell me, you'll lose both your gown and your ruff! But never mind, I'll give you a trial first," and so he took the biggest silver tankard he had and went down to the sea shore with the parson. "Can you tell me now, what I have got in this tankard?" said the king. "and if so, you can tell me the other thing I asked you as well," and he held the lid of the tankard tight.The charcoal burner wrung his hands in despair and cried, "Oh, you unfortunate crawling crab of this earth, what have you now in return for all your toil and trouble!""Ah, there you see! You did know it after all!" said the king, for he had put a crab in the tankard.So the charcoal burner had to go back to the palace, where he was shown, into the queen's drawing room. He took a chair and sat down in the middle of the room, while the queen walked up and down the floor."One should never make a stall for the unborn calf, and never quarrel about the baby's name before it is born," said the charcoal burner, "but I never saw anything like this before. when the queen comes towards me, I fancy it will be a prince, and when she walks away from me, it seems to me as if it will be a princess."It turned out in time to be twins, and so the charcoal burner had made a lucky hit that time also. And thus for telling what no one could know anything about he got loads of money, and he became next man to the king.Snip, snap, snout, that man knew what he was about.