In a great and beautiful city that stood by the sea, an old man laydying. Mar Shalmon was his name, and he was the richest man in theland. Propped up with pillows on a richly decorated bed in a luxuriouschamber, he gazed, with tears in his eyes, through the open window atthe setting sun. Like a ball of fire it sank lower and lower until italmost seemed to rest on the tranquil waters beyond the harbor.Suddenly, Mar Shalmon roused himself."Where is my son, Bar Shalmon?" he asked in a feeble voice, and hishand crept tremblingly along the silken coverlet of the bed as if insearch of something."I am here, my father," replied his son who was standing by the sideof his bed. His eyes were moist with tears, but his voice was steady."My son," said the old man, slowly, and with some difficulty, "I amabout to leave this world. My soul will take flight from this frailbody when the sun has sunk behind the horizon. I have lived long andhave amassed great wealth which will soon be thine. Use it well, as Ihave taught thee, for thou, my son, art a man of learning, as befitsour noble Jewish faith. One thing I must ask thee to promise me."(: A strange crowd of demons of all shapes andsizes poured into the synagogue with threatening gestures.(_Page 40_).)"I will, my father," returned Bar Shalmon, sobbing."Nay, weep not, my son," said the old man. "My day is ended. my lifehas not been ill spent. I would spare thee the pain that was mine inmy early days, when, as a merchant, I garnered my fortune. The sea outthere that will soon swallow up the sun is calm now. But beware of it,my son, for it is treacherous. Promise me nay, swear unto me thatnever wilt thou cross it to foreign lands."Bar Shalmon placed his hands on those of his father."Solemnly I swear," he said, in a broken voice, "to do thy wish neverto journey on the sea, but to remain here in this, my native land.'Tis a vow before thee, my father.""'Tis an oath before heaven," said the old man. "Guard it, keep it,and heaven will bless thee. Remember! See, the sun is sinking."Mar Shalmon fell back upon his pillows and spoke no more. Bar Shalmonstood gazing out of the window until the sun had disappeared, andthen, silently sobbing, he left the chamber of death.The whole city wept when the sad news was made known, for Mar Shalmonwas a man of great charity, and almost all the inhabitants followedthe remains to the grave. Then Bar Shalmon, his son, took his father'splace of honor in the city, and in him, too, the poor and needy founda friend whose purse was ever open and whose counsel was ever wisdom.Thus years passed away.One day there arrived in the harbor of the city a strange ship from adistant land. Its captain spoke a tongue unknown, and Bar Shalmon,being a man of profound knowledge, was sent for. He alone in the citycould understand the language of the captain. To his astonishment, helearned that the cargo of the vessel was for Mar Shalmon, his father."I am the son of Mar Shalmon," he said. "My father is dead, and allhis possessions he left to me.""Then, verily, art thou the most fortunate mortal, and the richest, onearth," answered the captain. "My good ship is filled with a vaststore of jewels, precious stones and other treasures. And know you, Omost favored son of Mar Shalmon, this cargo is but a small portion ofthe wealth that is thine in a land across the sea.""'Tis strange," said Bar Shalmon, in surprise. "my father said noughtof this to me. I knew that in his younger days he had traded withdistant lands, but nothing did he ever say of possessions there. And,moreover, he warned me never to leave this shore."The captain looked perplexed."I understand it not," he said. "I am but performing my father'sbidding. He was thy father's servant, and long years did he wait forMar Shalmon's return to claim his riches. On his death bed he bade mevow that I would seek his master, or his son, and this have I done."He produced documents, and there could be no doubt that the vastwealth mentioned in them belonged now to Bar Shalmon."Thou art now my master," said the captain, "and must return with meto the land across the sea to claim thine inheritance. In another yearit will be too late, for by the laws of the country it will beforfeit.""I cannot return with thee," said Bar Shalmon. "I have a vow beforeheaven never to voyage on the sea."The captain laughed."In very truth, I understand thee not, as my father understood notthine," he replied. "My father was wont to say that Mar Shalmon wasstrange and peradventure not possessed of all his senses to neglecthis store of wealth and treasure."With an angry gesture Bar Shalmon stopped the captain, but he wassorely troubled. He recalled now that his father had often spokenmysteriously of foreign lands, and he wondered, indeed, whether MarShalmon could have been in his proper senses not to have breathed aword of his riches abroad. For days he discussed the matter with thecaptain, who at last persuaded him to make the journey."Fear not thy vow," said the captain. "Thy worthy father must, of atruth, have been bereft of reason in failing to tell thee of his fullestate, and an oath to a man of mind unsound is not binding. That isthe law in our land.""So it is here," returned Bar Shalmon, and with this remark his lastscruple vanished.He bade a tender farewell to his wife, his child, and his friends,and set sail on the strange ship to the land beyond the sea.For three days all went well, but on the fourth the ship was becalmedand the sails flapped lazily against the masts. The sailors hadnothing to do but lie on deck and wait for a breeze, and Bar Shalmontook advantage of the occasion to treat them to a feast.Suddenly, in the midst of the feasting, they felt the ship begin tomove. There was no wind, but the vessel sped along very swiftly. Thecaptain himself rushed to the helm. To his alarm he found the vesselbeyond control."The ship is bewitched," he exclaimed. "There is no wind, and nocurrent, and yet we are being borne along as if driven before a storm.We shall be lost."Panic seized the sailors, and Bar Shalmon was unable to pacify them."Someone on board has brought us ill luck," said the boatswain,looking pointedly at Bar Shalmon. "we shall have to heave himoverboard."His comrades assented and rushed toward Bar Shalmon.Just at that moment, however, the look out in the bow cried excitedly,"Land ahead!"The ship still refused to answer the helm and grounded on a sandbank.She shivered from stem to stern but did not break up. No rocks werevisible, only a desolate tract of desert land was to be seen, withhere and there a solitary tree."We seem to have sustained no damage," said the captain, when he hadrecovered from his first astonishment, "but how we are going to getafloat again I do not know. This land is quite strange to me."He could not find it marked on any of his charts or maps, and thesailors stood looking gloomily at the mysterious shore."Had we not better explore the land?" said Bar Shalmon."No, no," exclaimed the boatswain, excitedly. "See, no breakers strikeon the shore. This is not a human land. This is a domain of demons. Weare lost unless we cast overboard the one who has brought on us thisill luck."Said Bar Shalmon, "I will land, and I will give fifty silver crowns toall who land with me."Not one of the sailors moved, however, even when he offered fiftygolden crowns, and at last Bar Shalmon said he would land alone,although the captain strongly urged him not to do so.Bar Shalmon sprang lightly to the shore, and as he did so the shipshook violently."What did I tell you?" shouted the boatswain. "Bar Shalmon is the onewho has brought us this misfortune. Now we shall refloat the ship."But it still remained firmly fixed on the sand. Bar Shalmon walkedtowards a tree and climbed it. In a few moments he returned, holding atwig in his hand."The land stretches away for miles just as you see it here," he calledto the captain. "There is no sign of man or habitation."He prepared to board the vessel again, but the sailors would not allowhim. The boatswain stood in the bow and threatened him with a sword.Bar Shalmon raised the twig to ward off the blow and struck the shipwhich shivered from stern to stern again."Is not this proof that the vessel is bewitched?" cried the sailors,and when the captain sternly bade them remember that Bar Shalmon wastheir master, they threatened him too.Bar Shalmon, amused at the fears of the men, again struck the vesselwith the twig. Once more it trembled. A third time he raised thetwig."If the ship is bewitched," he said, "something will happen after thethird blow.""Swish" sounded the branch through the air, and the third blow fell onthe vessel's bow. Something did happen. The ship almost leaped fromthe sand, and before Bar Shalmon could realize what had happened itwas speeding swiftly away."Come back, come back," he screamed, and he could see the captainstruggling with the helm. But the vessel refused to answer, and BarShalmon saw it grow smaller and smaller and finally disappear. He wasalone on an uninhabited desert land."What a wretched plight for the richest man in the world," he said tohimself, and the next moment he realized that he was in danger indeed.A terrible roar made him look around. To his horror he saw a lionmaking toward him. As quick as a flash Bar Shalmon ran to the tree andhastily scrambled into the branches. The lion dashed itself furiouslyagainst the trunk of the tree, but, for the present, Bar Shalmon wassafe. Night, however, was coming on, and the lion squatted at the footof the tree, evidently intending to wait for him. All night the lionremained, roaring at intervals, and Bar Shalmon clung to one of theupper branches afraid to sleep lest he should fall off and bedevoured. When morning broke, a new danger threatened him. A hugeeagle flew round the tree and darted at him with its cruel beak. Thenthe great bird settled on the thickest branch, and Bar Shalmon movedstealthily forward with a knife which he drew from his belt. He creptbehind the bird, but as he approached it spread its big wings, and BarShalmon, to prevent himself being swept from the tree, dropped theknife and clutched at the bird's feathers. Immediately, to his dismay,the bird rose from the tree. Bar Shalmon clung to its back with allhis might.Higher and higher soared the eagle until the trees below looked likemere dots on the land. Swiftly flew the eagle over miles and miles ofdesert until Bar Shalmon began to feel giddy. He was faint with hungerand feared that he would not be able to retain his hold. All day thebird flew without resting, across island and sea. No houses, no ships,no human beings could be seen. Toward night, however, Bar Shalmon, tohis great joy, beheld the lights of a city surrounded by trees, and asthe eagle came near, he made a bold dive to the earth. Headlong heplunged downward. He seemed to be hours in falling. At last he strucka tree. The branches broke beneath the weight and force of his fallingbody, and he continued to plunge downward. The branches tore hisclothes to shreds and bruised his body, but they broke his terriblefall, and when at last he reached the ground he was not much hurt.Bar Shalmon found himself on the outskirts of the city, and cautiouslyhe crept forward. To his intense relief, he saw that the firstbuilding was a synagogue. The door, however, was locked. Weary, sore,and weak with long fasting, Bar Shalmon sank down on the steps andsobbed like a child.Something touched him on the arm. He looked up. By the light of themoon he saw a boy standing before him. Such a queer boy he was, too.He had cloven feet, and his coat, if it was a coat, seemed to be madein the shape of wings."_Ivri Onochi_," said Bar Shalmon, "I am a Hebrew.""So am I," said the boy. "Follow me."He walked in front with a strange hobble, and when they reached ahouse at the back of the synagogue, he leaped from the ground,spreading his coat wings as he did so, to a window about twenty feetfrom the ground. The next moment a door opened, and Bar Shalmon, tohis surprise, saw that the boy had jumped straight through the windowdown to the door which he had unfastened from the inside. The boymotioned him to enter a room. He did so. An aged man, who he saw was arabbi, rose to greet him."Peace be with you," said the rabbi, and pointed to a seat. He clappedhis hand and immediately a table with food appeared before BarShalmon. The latter was far too hungry to ask any questions just then,and the rabbi was silent, too, while he ate. When he had finished, therabbi clapped his hands and the table vanished."Now tell me your story," said the rabbi.Bar Shalmon did so."Alas! I am an unhappy man," he concluded. "I have been punished forbreaking my vow. Help me to return to my home. I will reward theewell, and will atone for my sin.""Thy story is indeed sad," said the rabbi, gravely, "but thou knowestnot the full extent of thy unfortunate plight. Art thou aware whatland it is into which thou hast been cast?""No," said Bar Shalmon, becoming afraid again."Know then," said the rabbi, "thou art not in a land of human beings.Thou hast fallen into Ergetz, the land of demons, of djinns, and offairies.""But art thou not a Jew?" asked Bar Shalmon, in astonishment."Truly," replied the rabbi. "Even in this realm we have all manner ofreligions just as you mortals have.""What will happen to me?" asked Bar Shalmon, in a whisper."I know not," replied the rabbi. "Few mortals come here, and mostly, Ifear they are put to death. The demons love them not.""Woe, woe is me," cried Bar Shalmon, "I am undone.""Weep not," said the rabbi. "I, as a Jew, love not death by violenceand torture, and will endeavor to save thee.""I thank thee," cried Bar Shalmon."Let thy thanks wait," said the rabbi, kindly. "There is human bloodin my veins. My great grandfather was a mortal who fell into thisland and was not put to death. Being of mortal descent, I have beenmade rabbi. Perhaps thou wilt find favor here and be permitted to liveand settle in this land.""But I desire to return home," said Bar Shalmon.The rabbi shook his head."Thou must sleep now," he said.He passed his hands over Bar Shalmon's eyes and he fell into aprofound slumber. When he awoke it was daylight, and the boy stood byhis couch. He made a sign to Bar Shalmon to follow, and through anunderground passage he conducted him into the synagogue and placed himnear the rabbi."Thy presence has become known," whispered the rabbi, and even as hespoke a great noise was heard. It was like the wild chattering of manyhigh pitched voices. Through all the windows and the doors a strangecrowd poured into the synagogue. There were demons of all shapes andsizes. Some had big bodies with tiny heads, others huge heads andquaint little bodies. Some had great staring eyes, others had longwide mouths, and many had only one leg each. They surrounded BarShalmon with threatening gestures and noises. The rabbi ascended thepulpit."Silence!" he commanded, and immediately the noise ceased. "Ye whothirst for mortal blood, desecrate not this holy building wherein I ammaster. What ye have to say must wait until after the morningservice."Silently and patiently they waited, sitting in all manner of queerplaces. Some of them perched on the backs of the seats, a few clunglike great big flies to the pillars, others sat on the window sills,and several of the tiniest hung from the rafters in the ceiling. Assoon as the service was over, the clamor broke out anew."Give to us the perjurer," screamed the demons. "He is not fit tolive."With some difficulty, the rabbi stilled the tumult, and said:"Listen unto me, ye demons and sprites of the land of Ergetz. This manhas fallen into my hands, and I am responsible for him. Our king,Ashmedai, must know of his arrival. We must not condemn a man unheard.Let us petition the king to grant him a fair trial."After some demur, the demons agreed to this proposal, and they troopedout of the synagogue in the same peculiar manner in which they came.Each was compelled to leave by the same door or window at which heentered.Bar Shalmon was carried off to the palace of King Ashmedai, precededand followed by a noisy crowd of demons and fairies. There seemed tobe millions of them, all clattering and pointing at him. They hobbledand hopped over the ground, jumped into the air, sprang from housetopto housetop, made sudden appearances from holes in the ground andvanished through solid walls.The palace was a vast building of white marble that seemed as delicateas lace work. It stood in a magnificent square where many beautifulfountains spouted jets of crystal water. King Ashmedai came forth onthe balcony, and at his appearance all the demons and fairies becamesilent and went down on their knees."What will ye with me?" he cried, in a voice of thunder, and the rabbiapproached and bowed before his majesty."A mortal, a Jew, has fallen into my hands," he said, "and thysubjects crave for his blood. He is a perjurer, they say. Graciousmajesty, I would petition for a trial.""What manner of mortal is he?" asked Ashmedai.Bar Shalmon stepped forward."Jump up here so I may see thee," commanded the king."Jump, jump," cried the crowd."I cannot," said Bar Shalmon, as he looked up at the balcony thirtyfeet above the ground."Try," said the rabbi.Bar Shalmon did try, and found, the moment he lifted his feet from theground, that he was standing on the balcony."Neatly done," said the king. "I see thou art quick at learning.""So my teachers always said," replied Bar Shalmon."A proper answer," said the king. "Thou art, then, a scholar.""In my own land," returned Bar Shalmon, "men said I was great amongthe learned.""So," said the king. "And canst thou impart the wisdom of man and ofthe human world to others?""I can," said Bar Shalmon."We shall see," said the king. "I have a son with a desire for suchknowledge. If thou canst make him acquainted with thy store oflearning, thy life shall be spared. The petition for a trial isgranted."The king waved his scepter and two slaves seized Bar Shalmon by thearms. He felt himself lifted from the balcony and carried swiftlythrough the air. Across the vast square the slaves flew with him, andwhen over the largest of the fountains they loosened their hold. BarShalmon thought he would fall into the fountain, but to his amazementhe found himself standing on the roof of a building. By his side wasthe rabbi."Where are we?" asked Bar Shalmon. "I feel bewildered.""We are at the Court of Justice, one hundred miles from the palace,"replied the rabbi.A door appeared before them. They stepped through, and foundthemselves in a beautiful hall. Three judges in red robes and purplewigs were seated on a platform, and an immense crowd filled thegalleries in the same queer way as in the synagogue. Bar Shalmon wasplaced on a small platform in front of the judges. A tiny sprite, onlyabout six inches high, stood on another small platform at his righthand and commenced to read from a scroll that seemed to have noending. He read the whole account of Bar Shalmon's life. Not onelittle event was missing."The charge against Bar Shalmon, the mortal," the sprite concluded,"is that he has violated the solemn oath sworn at his father'sdeath bed."Then the rabbi pleaded for him and declared that the oath was notbinding because Bar Shalmon's father had not informed him of histreasures abroad and could not therefore have been in his rightsenses. Further, he added, Bar Shalmon was a scholar and the kingdesired him to teach his wisdom to the crown prince.The chief justice rose to pronounce sentence."Bar Shalmon," he said, "rightly thou shouldst die for thy brokenoath. It is a grievous sin. But there is the doubt that thy father maynot have been in his right mind. Therefore, thy life shall be spared."Bar Shalmon expressed his thanks."When may I return to my home?" he asked."Never," replied the chief justice.Bar Shalmon left the court, feeling very downhearted. He was safe now.The demons dared not molest him, but he longed to return to his home."How am I to get back to the palace?" he asked the rabbi. "Perhapsafter I have imparted my learning to the crown prince, the king willallow me to return to my native land.""That I cannot say. Come, fly with me," said the rabbi."Fly!""Yes. see thou hast wings."Bar Shalmon noticed that he was now wearing a garment just like allthe demons. When he spread his arms, he found he could fly, and hesailed swiftly through the air to the palace. With these wings, hethought, he would be able to fly home."Think not that," said the rabbi, who seemed to be able to read histhoughts, "for thy wings are useless beyond this land."Bar Shalmon found that it would be best for him to carry out hisinstructions for the present, and he set himself diligently to teachthe crown prince. The prince was an apt pupil, and the two becamegreat friends. King Ashmedai was delighted and made Bar Shalmon one ofhis favorites.One day the king said to him: "I am about to leave the city for awhile to undertake a campaign against a rebellious tribe of demonsthousands of miles away. I must take the crown prince with me. I leavethee in charge of the palace."The king gave him a huge bunch of keys."These," he said, "will admit into all but one of the thousand roomsin the palace. For that one there is no key, and thou must not enterit. Beware."For several days Bar Shalmon amused himself by examining the hundredsof rooms in the vast palace until one day he came to the door forwhich he had no key. He forgot the king's warning and his promise toobey."Open this door for me," he said to his attendants, but they repliedthat they could not."You must," he said angrily, "burst it open.""We do not know how to burst open a door," they said. "We are notmortal. If we were permitted to enter the room we should just walkthrough the walls."Bar Shalmon could not do this, so he put his shoulder to the door andit yielded quite easily.A strange sight met his gaze. A beautiful woman, the most beautiful hehad ever seen, was seated on a throne of gold, surrounded by fairyattendants who vanished the moment he entered."Who art thou?" asked Bar Shalmon, in great astonishment."The daughter of the king," replied the princess, "and thy futurewife.""Indeed! How know you that?" he asked."Thou hast broken thy promise to my father, the king, not to enterthis room," she replied. "Therefore, thou must die, unless ""Tell me quickly," interrupted Bar Shalmon, turning pale, "how my lifecan be saved.""Thou must ask my father for my hand," replied the princess. "Only bybecoming my husband canst thou be saved.""But I have a wife and child in my native land," said Bar Shalmon,sorely troubled."Thou hast now forfeited thy hopes of return," said the princess,slowly. "Once more hast thou broken a promise. It seems to come easyto thee now."Bar Shalmon had no wish to die, and he waited, in fear and tremblingfor the king's return. Immediately he heard of King Ashmedai'sapproach, he hastened to meet him and flung himself on the ground athis majesty's feet."O King," he cried, "I have seen thy daughter, the princess, and Idesire to make her my wife.""I cannot refuse," returned the king. "Such is our law that he whofirst sees the princess must become her husband, or die. But, have acare, Bar Shalmon. Thou must swear to love and be faithful ever.""I swear," said Bar Shalmon.The wedding took place with much ceremony. The princess was attendedby a thousand fairy bridesmaids, and the whole city was brilliantlydecorated and illuminated until Bar Shalmon was almost blinded by thedazzling spectacle.The rabbi performed the marriage ceremony, and Bar Shalmon had toswear an oath by word of mouth and in writing that he loved theprincess and would never desert her. He was given a beautiful palacefull of jewels as a dowry, and the wedding festivities lasted sixmonths. All the fairies and demons invited them in turn. they had toattend banquets and parties and dances in grottoes and caves and inthe depths of the fairy fountains in the square. Never before inErgetz had there been such elaborate rejoicings.Some years rolled by and still Bar Shalmon thought of his native land.One day the princess found him weeping quietly."Why art thou sad, husband mine?" she asked. "Dost thou no longer loveme, and am I not beautiful now?""No, it is not that," he said, but for a long time he refused to saymore. At last he confessed that he had an intense longing to see hishome again."But thou art bound to me by an oath," said the princess."I know," replied Bar Shalmon, "and I shall not break it. Permit me tovisit my home for a brief while, and I will return and prove myselfmore devoted to thee than ever."On these conditions, the princess agreed that he should take leave fora whole year. A big, black demon flew swiftly with him to his nativecity.No sooner had Bar Shalmon placed his feet on the ground than hedetermined not to return to the land of Ergetz."Tell thy royal mistress," he said to the demon, "that I shall neverreturn to her."He tore his clothes to make himself look poor, but his wife wasoverjoyed to see him. She had mourned him as dead. He did not tell ofhis adventures, but merely said he had been ship wrecked and hadworked his way back as a poor sailor. He was delighted to be amonghuman beings again, to hear his own language and to see solidbuildings that did not appear and disappear just when they pleased,and as the days passed he began to think his adventures in fairylandwere but a dream.Meanwhile, the princess waited patiently until the year was ended.Then she sent the big, black demon to bring Bar Shalmon back.Bar Shalmon met the messenger one night when walking alone in hisgarden."I have come to take thee back," said the demon.Bar Shalmon was startled. He had forgotten that the year was up. Hefelt that he was lost, but as the demon did not seize him by force, hesaw that there was a possibility of escape."Return and tell thy mistress I refuse," he said."I will take thee by force," said the demon."Thou canst not," Bar Shalmon said, "for I am the son in law of theking."The demon was helpless and returned to Ergetz alone.King Ashmedai was very angry, but the princess counseled patience."I will devise means to bring my husband back," she said. "I will sendother messengers."Thus it was that Bar Shalmon found a troupe of beautiful fairies inthe garden the next evening. They tried their utmost to induce him toreturn with them, but he would not listen. Every day differentmessengers came big, ugly demons who threatened, pretty fairies whotried to coax him, and troublesome sprites and goblins who onlyannoyed him. Bar Shalmon could not move without encounteringmessengers from the princess in all manner of queer places. Nobodyelse could see them, and often he was heard talking to invisiblepeople. His friends began to regard him as strange in his behavior.King Ashmedai grew angrier every day, and he threatened to go for BarShalmon himself."Nay, I will go," said the princess. "it will be impossible for myhusband to resist me."She selected a large number of attendants, and the swift flight of theprincess and her retinue through the air caused a violent storm torage over the lands they crossed. Like a thick black cloud theyswooped down on the land where Bar Shalmon dwelt, and their weirdcries seemed like the wild shrieking of a mighty hurricane. Down theyswept in a tremendous storm such as the city had never known. Then, asquickly as it came, the storm ceased, and the people who had fled intotheir houses, ventured forth again.The little son of Bar Shalmon went out into the garden, but quicklyrushed back into the house."Father, come forth and see," he cried. "The garden is full of strangecreatures brought by the storm. All manner of creeping, crawlingthings have invaded the garden lizards, toads, and myriads ofinsects. The trees, the shrubs, the paths are covered, and some shinein the twilight like tiny lanterns."Bar Shalmon went out into the garden, but he did not see toads andlizards. What he beheld was a vast array of demons and goblins andsprites, and in a rose bush the princess, his wife, shining like astar, surrounded by her attendant fairies. She stretched forth herarms to him."Husband mine," she pleaded, "I have come to implore thee to return tothe land of Ergetz with me. Sadly have I missed thee. long have Iwaited for thy coming, and difficult has it been to appease myfather's anger. Come, husband mine, return with me. a great welcomeawaits thee.""I will not return," said Bar Shalmon."Kill him, kill him," shrieked the demons, and they surrounded him,gesticulating fiercely."Nay, harm him not," commanded the princess. "Think well, BarShalmon, ere you answer again. The sun has set and night is upon us.Think well, until sunrise. Come to me, return, and all shall be well.Refuse, and thou shalt be dealt with as thou hast merited. Think wellbefore the sunrise.""And what will happen at sunrise, if I refuse?" asked Bar Shalmon."Thou shalt see," returned the princess. "Bethink thee well, andremember, I await thee here until the sunrise.""I have answered. I defy thee," said Bar Shalmon, and he went indoors.Night passed with strange, mournful music in the garden, and the sunrose in its glory and spread its golden beams over the city. And withthe coming of the light, more strange sounds woke the people of thecity. A wondrous sight met their gaze in the market place. It wasfilled with hundreds upon hundreds of the queerest creatures they hadever seen, goblins and brownies, demons and fairies. Dainty littleelves ran about the square to the delight of the children, and quaintsprites clambered up the lamposts and squatted on the gables of thecouncil house. On the steps of that building was a glittering array offairies and attendant genii, and in their midst stood the princess, adazzling vision, radiant as the dawn.The mayor of the city knew not what to do. He put on his chain ofoffice and made a long speech of welcome to the princess."Thank you for your cordial welcome," said the princess, in reply,"and you the mayor, and ye the good people of this city of mortals,hearken unto me. I am the princess of the Fairyland of Ergetz where myfather, Ashmedai, rules as king. There is one among ye who is myhusband.""Who is he?" the crowd asked in astonishment."Bar Shalmon is his name," replied the princess, "and to him am Ibound by vows that may not be broken.""'Tis false," cried Bar Shalmon from the crowd."'Tis true. Behold our son," answered the princess, and there steppedforward a dainty elfin boy whose face was the image of Bar Shalmon."I ask of you mortals of the city," the princess continued, "but onething, justice that same justice which we in the land of Ergetz didgive unto Bar Shalmon when, after breaking his oath unto his father,he set sail for a foreign land and was delivered into our hands. Wespared his life. we granted his petition for a new trial. I but askthat ye should grant me the same petition. Hear me in your Court ofJustice.""Thy request is but reasonable, princess," said the mayor. "It shallnot be said that strangers here are refused justice. Bar Shalmon,follow me."He led the way into the Chamber of Justice, and the magistrates of thecity heard all that the princess and her witnesses, among whom was therabbi, and also all that Bar Shalmon, had to say."'Tis plain," said the mayor, delivering judgment, "that her royalhighness, the princess of the Fairyland of Ergetz, has spoken thatwhich is true. But Bar Shalmon has in this city wife and child to whomhe is bound by ties that may not be broken. Bar Shalmon must divorcethe princess and return unto her the dowry received by him on theirmarriage.""If such be your law, I am content," said the princess."What sayest thou, Bar Shalmon?" asked the mayor."Oh! I'm content," he answered gruffly. "I agree to anything thatwill rid me of the demon princess."The princess flushed crimson with shame and rage at these cruel words."These words I have not deserved," she exclaimed, proudly. "I haveloved thee, and have been faithful unto thee, Bar Shalmon. I acceptthe decree of your laws and shall return to the land of Ergetz awidow. I ask not for your pity. I ask but for that which is my right,one last kiss.""Very well," said Bar Shalmon, still more gruffly, "anything to havedone with thee."The princess stepped proudly forward to him and kissed him on thelips.Bar Shalmon turned deadly pale and would have fallen had not hisfriends caught him."Take thy punishment for all thy sins," cried the princess, haughtily,"for thy broken vows and thy false promises thy perjury to thy God,to thy father, to my father and to me."As she spoke Bar Shalmon fell dead at her feet. At a sign from theprincess, her retinue of fairies and demons flew out of the buildingand up into the air with their royal mistress in their midst andvanished.