Manawyddan the prince and his friend Pryderi were wanderers, for thebrother of Manawyddan had been slain, and his throne taken from him.Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and badehim be of good cheer, as he knew a way out of his trouble.'And what may that be?' asked Manawyddan.'It is that thou marry my mother Rhiannon and become lord of the fairlands that I will give her for dowry. Never did any lady have more witthan she, and in her youth none was more lovely. even yet she is good tolook upon.''Thou art the best friend that ever a man had,' said Manawyddan. 'Let usgo now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.'Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still, andRhiannon and Kieva, wife of Pryderi, made haste to prepare a feast forthem. And Manawyddan found that Pryderi had spoken the truth concerninghis mother, and asked if she would take him for her husband. Rightgladly did she consent, and without delay they were married, and rodeaway to the hunt, Rhiannon and Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi, and theywould not be parted from each other by night or by day, so great was thelove between them.One day, when they were returned, they were sitting out in a greenplace, and suddenly the crash of thunder struck loudly on their ears,and a wall of mist fell between them, so that they were hidden one fromthe other. Trembling they sat till the darkness fled and the light shoneagain upon them, but in the place where they were wont to see cattle,and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor mannor smoke. neither was any one remaining in the green place save thesefour only.'Whither have they gone, and my host also?' cried Manawyddan, and theysearched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there wasnone, and in the dwellings that were left was nothing save wild beasts.For a year these four fed on the meat that Manawyddan and Pryderi killedout hunting, and the honey of the bees that sucked the mountain heather.For a time they desired nothing more, but when the next year began theygrew weary.'We cannot spend our lives thus,' said Manawyddan at last, 'let us gointo England and learn some trade by which we may live.' So theyleft Wales, and went to Hereford, and there they made saddles, whileManawyddan fashioned blue enamel ornaments to put on their trappings.And so greatly did the townsfolk love these saddles, that no otherswere bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers bandedtogether and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions.When Pryderi heard of it, he was very wroth, and wished to stay andfight. But the counsels of Manawyddan prevailed, and they moved by nightto another city.'What craft shall we follow?' asked Pryderi.'We will make shields,' answered Manawyddan.'But do we know anything of that craft?' answered Pryderi.'We will try it,' said Manawyddan, and they began to make shields, andfashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen. and theselikewise they enamelled. And so greatly did they prosper that no manin the town bought a shield except they had made it, till at length theshield makers banded together as the saddlers had done, and resolved toslay them. But of this they had warning, and by night betook themselvesto another town.'Let us take to making shoes,' said Manawyddan, 'for there are not anyamong the shoemakers bold enough to fight us.''I know nothing of making shoes,' answered Pryderi, who in truthdespised so peaceful a craft.'But I know,' replied Manawyddan, 'and I will teach thee to stitch. Wewill buy the leather ready dressed, and will make the shoes from it.Then straightway he sought the town for the best leather, and for agoldsmith to fashion the clasps, and he himself watched till it wasdone, so that he might learn for himself. Soon he became known as 'TheMaker of Gold Shoes,' and prospered so greatly, that as long as onecould be bought from him not a shoe was purchased from the shoemakersof the town. And the craftsmen were wroth, and banded together to slaythem.'Pryderi,' said Manawyddan, when he had received news of it, 'we willnot remain in England any longer. Let us set forth to Dyved.'So they journeyed until they came to their lands at Narberth. There theygathered their dogs round them, and hunted for a year as before.After that a strange thing happened. One morning Pryderi and Manawyddanrose up to hunt, and loosened their dogs, which ran before them, tillthey came to a small bush. At the bush, the dogs shrank away as iffrightened, and returned to their masters, their hair brisling on theirbacks.'We must see what is in that bush,' said Pryderi, and what was in it wasa boar, with a skin as white as the snow on the mountains. And he cameout, and made a stand as the dogs rushed on him, driven on by the men.Long he stood at bay. then at last he betook himself to flight, and fledto a castle which was newly built, in a place where no building had everbeen known. Into the castle he ran, and the dogs after him, and longthough their masters looked and listened, they neither saw nor heardaught concerning dogs or boar.'I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs,' said Pryderi atlast.'Truly,' answered Manawyddan, 'thou wouldst do unwisely, for whosoeverhas cast a spell over this land has set this castle here.''I cannot give up my dogs,' replied Pryderi, and to the castle he went.But within was neither man nor beast. neither boar nor dogs, but onlya fountain with marble round it, and on the edge a golden bowl, richlywrought, which pleased Pryderi greatly. In a moment he forgot about hisdogs, and went up to the bowl and took hold of it, and his handsstuck to the bowl, and his feet to the marble slab, and despair tookpossession of him.Till the close of day Manawyddan waited for him, and when the sun wasfast sinking, he went home, thinking that he had strayed far.'Where are thy friend and thy dogs?' said Rhiannon, and he told her whathad befallen Pryderi.'A good friend hast thou lost,' answered Rhiannon, and she went up tothe castle and through the gate, which was open. There, in the centre ofthe courtyard, she beheld Pryderi standing, and hastened towards him.'What dost thou here?' she asked, laying her hand on the bowl, and asshe spoke she too stuck fast, and was not able to utter a word. Thenthunder was heard and a veil of darkness descended upon them, and thecastle vanished and they with it.When Kieva, the wife of Pryderi, found that neither her husband norhis mother returned to her, she was in such sorrow that she cared notwhether she lived or died. Manawyddan was grieved also in his heart, andsaid to her:'It is not fitting that we should stay here, for he have lost our dogsand cannot get food. Let us go into England it is easier for us to livethere.' So they set forth.'What craft wilt thou follow?' asked Kieva as they went along.'I shall make shoes as once I did,' replied he. and he got all thefinest leather in the town and caused gilded clasps to be made for theshoes, till everyone flocked to buy, and all the shoemakers in thetown were idle and banded together in anger to kill him. But luckilyManawyddan got word of it, and he and Kieva left the town one night andproceeded to Narberth, taking with him a sheaf of wheat, which he sowedin three plots of ground. And while the wheat was growing up, he huntedand fished, and they had food enough and to spare. Thus the monthspassed until the harvest. and one evening Manawyddan visited thefurthest of his fields of wheat. and saw that it was ripe.'To morrow I will reap this,' said he. but on the morrow when he went toreap the wheat he found nothing but the bare straw.Filled with dismay he hastened to the second field, and there the cornwas ripe and golden.'To morrow I will reap this,' he said, but on the morrow the ears hadgone, and there was nothing but the bare straw.'Well, there is still one field left,' he said, and when he lookedat it, it was still fairer than the other two. 'To night I will watchhere,' thought he, 'for whosoever carried off the other corn will inlike manner take this, and I will know who it is.' So he hid himself andwaited.The hours slid by, and all was still, so still that Manawyddan well nighdropped asleep. But at midnight there arose the loudest tumult in theworld, and peeping out he beheld a mighty host of mice, which couldneither be numbered nor measured. Each mouse climbed up a straw tillit bent down with its weight, and then it bit off one of the ears, andcarried it away, and there was not one of the straws that had not got amouse to it.Full of wrath he rushed at the mice, but he could no more come up withthem than if they had been gnats, or birds of the air, save one onlywhich lingered behind the rest, and this mouse Manawyddan came up with.Stooping down he seized it by the tail, and put it in his glove, andtied a piece of string across the opening of the glove, so that themouse could not escape. When he entered the hall where Kieva wassitting, he lighted a fire, and hung the glove up on a peg.'What hast thou there?' asked she.'A thief,' he answered, 'that I caught robbing me.''What kind of a thief may it be which thou couldst put in thy glove?'said Kieva.'That I will tell thee,' he replied, and then he showed her how hisfields of corn had been wasted, and how he had watched for the mice.'And one was less nimble than the rest, and is now in my glove.To morrow I will hang it, and I only wish I had them all.''It is a marvel, truly,' said she, 'yet it would be unseemly for a manof thy dignity to hang a reptile such as this. Do not meddle with it,but let it go.''Woe betide me,' he cried, 'if I would not hang them all if I couldcatch them, and such as I have I will hang.''Verily,' said she, 'there is no reason I should succour this reptile,except to prevent discredit unto thee.''If I knew any cause that I should succour it, I would take thycounsel,' answered Manawyddan, 'but as I know of none, I am minded todestroy it.''Do so then,' said Kieva.So he went up a hill and set up two forks on the top, and while hewas doing this he saw a scholar coming towards him, whose clothes weretattered. Now it was seven years since Manawyddan had seen man or beastin that place, and the sight amazed him.'Good day to thee, my lord,' said the scholar.'Good greeting to thee, scholar. Whence dost thou come?''From singing in England. but wherefore dost thou ask?''Because for seven years no man hath visited this place.''I wander where I will,' answered the scholar. 'And what work art thouupon?''I am about to hang a thief that I caught robbing me!''What manner of thief is that?' inquired the scholar. 'I see a creaturein thy hand like upon a mouse, and ill does it become a man of thy rankto touch a reptile like this. Let it go free.''I will not let it go free,' cried Manawyddan. 'I caught it robbing me,and it shall suffer the doom of a thief.''Lord!' said the scholar, 'sooner than see a man like thee at such awork, I would give thee a pound which I have received as alms to let itgo free.''I will not let it go free, neither will I sell it.''As thou wilt, lord,' answered the scholar, and he went his way.Manawyddan was placing the cross beam on the two forked sticks, wherethe mouse was to hang, when a priest rode past.'Good day to thee, lord. and what art thou doing?''I am hanging a thief that I caught robbing me.''What manner of thief, lord?''A creature in the form of a mouse. It has been robbing me, and it shallsuffer the doom of a thief.''Lord,' said the priest, 'sooner than see thee touch this reptile, Iwould purchase its freedom.''I will neither sell it nor set it free.''It is true that a mouse is worth nothing, but rather than see theedefile thyself with touching such a reptile as this, I will give theethree pounds for it.''I will not take any price for it. It shall be hanged as it deserves.''Willingly, my lord, if it is thy pleasure.' And the priest went hisway.Then Manawyddan noosed the string about the mouse's neck, and wasabout to draw it tight when a bishop, with a great following and horsesbearing huge packs, came by.'What work art thou upon?' asked the bishop, drawing rein.'Hanging a thief that I caught robbing me.''But is not that a mouse that I see in thine hand?' asked the bishop.'Yes. that is the thief,' answered Manawyddan.'Well, since I have come at the doom of this reptile, I will ransom itof thee for seven pounds, rather than see a man of thy rank touch it.Loose it, and let it go.''I will not let it loose.''I will give thee four and twenty pounds to set it free,' said thebishop.'I will not set it free for as much again.''If thou wilt not set it free for this, I will give thee all the horsesthou seest and the seven loads of baggage.''I will not set it free.''Then tell me at what price thou wilt loose it, and I will give it.''The spell must be taken off Rhiannon and Pryderi,' said Manawyddan.'That shall be done.''But not yet will I loose the mouse. The charm that has been cast overall my lands must be taken off likewise.''This shall be done also.''But not yet will I loose the mouse till I know who she is.''She is my wife,' answered the bishop.'And wherefore came she to me?' asked Manawyddan.'To despoil thee,' replied the bishop, 'for it is I who cast the charmover thy lands, to avenge Gwawl the son of Clud my friend. And it was Iwho threw the spell upon Pryderi to avenge Gwawl for the trick that hadbeen played on him in the game of Badger in the Bag. And not only was Iwroth, but my people likewise, and when it was known that thou wast cometo dwell in the land, they besought me much to change them into mice,that they might eat thy corn. The first and the second nights it wasthe men of my own house that destroyed thy two fields, but on the thirdnight my wife and her ladies came to me and begged me to change themalso into the shape of mice, that they might take part in avengingGwawl. Therefore I changed them. Yet had she not been ill and slow offoot, thou couldst not have overtaken her. Still, since she was caught,I will restore thee Pryderi and Rhiannon, and will take the charm fromoff thy lands. I have told thee who she is. so now set her free.''I will not set her free,' answered Manawyddan, 'till thou swear that novengeance shall be taken for his, either upon Pryderi, or upon Rhiannon,or on me.''I will grant thee this boon. and thou hast done wisely to ask it, foron thy head would have lit all the trouble. Set now my wife free.''I will not set her free till Pryderi and Rhiannon are with me.''Behold, here they come,' said the bishop.Then Manawyddan held out his hands and greeted Pryderi and Rhiannon, andthey seated themselves joyfully on the grass.'Ah, lord, hast thou not received all thou didst ask?' said the bishop.'Set now my wife free!''That I will gladly,' answered Manawyddan, unloosing the cord from herneck, and as he did so the bishop struck her with his staff, and sheturned into a young woman, the fairest that ever was seen.'Look around upon thy land,' said he, 'and thou wilt see it all tilledand peopled, as it was long ago.' And Manawyddan looked, and saw corngrowing in the fields, and cows and sheep grazing on the hill side, andhuts for the people to dwell in. And he was satisfied in his soul, butone more question he put to the bishop.'What spell didst thou lay upon Pryderi and Rhiannon?''Pryderi has had the knockers of the gate of my palace hung about him,and Rhiannon has carried the collars of my asses around her neck,' saidthe bishop with a smile.From the 'Mabinogion.'