There was once a shilling, which came forth from the mintspringing and shouting, "Hurrah! now I am going out into the wideworld." And truly it did go out into the wide world. The children heldit with warm hands, the miser with a cold and convulsive grasp, andthe old people turned it about, goodness knows how many times, whilethe young people soon allowed it to roll away from them. Theshilling was made of silver, it contained very little copper, andconsidered itself quite out in the world when it had been circulatedfor a year in the country in which it had been coined. One day, itreally did go out into the world, for it belonged to a gentleman whowas about to travel in foreign lands. This gentleman was not awarethat the shilling lay at the bottom of his purse when he started, tillhe one day found it between his fingers. "Why," cried he, "here is ashilling from home. well, it must go on its travels with me now!"and the shilling jumped and rattled for joy, when it was put backagain into the purse.Here it lay among a number of foreign companions, who werealways coming and going, one taking the place of another, but theshilling from home was always put back, and had to remain in thepurse, which was certainly a mark of distinction. Many weeks passed,during which the shilling had travelled a long distance in thepurse, without in the least knowing where he was. He had found outthat the other coins were French and Italian. and one coin said theywere in this town, and another said they were in that, but theshilling was unable to make out or imagine what they meant. A mancertainly cannot see much of the world if he is tied up in a bag,and this was really the shilling's fate. But one day, as he waslying in the purse, he noticed that it was not quite closed, and so heslipped near to the opening to have a little peep into society. Hecertainly had not the least idea of what would follow, but he wascurious, and curiosity often brings its own punishment. In hiseagerness, he came so near the edge of the purse that he slipped outinto the pocket of the trousers. and when, in the evening, the pursewas taken out, the shilling was left behind in the corner to whichit had fallen. As the clothes were being carried into the hall, theshilling fell out on the floor, unheard and unnoticed by any one.The next morning the clothes were taken back to the room, thegentleman put them on, and started on his journey again. but theshilling remained behind on the floor. After a time it was found,and being considered a good coin, was placed with three other coins."Ah," thought the shilling, "this is pleasant. I shall now see theworld, become acquainted with other people, and learn other customs.""Do you call that a shilling?" said some one the next moment."That is not a genuine coin of the country, it is false. it is goodfor nothing."Now begins the story as it was afterwards related by theshilling himself."'False! good for nothing!' said he. That remark went throughand through me like a dagger. I knew that I had a true ring, andthat mine was a genuine stamp. These people must at all events bewrong, or they could not mean me. But yes, I was the one they called'false, and good for nothing.'"'Then I must pay it away in the dark,' said the man who hadreceived me. So I was to be got rid of in the darkness, and be againinsulted in broad daylight."'False! good for nothing!' Oh, I must contrive to get lost,thought I. And I trembled between the fingers of the people every timethey tried to pass me off slyly as a coin of the country. Ah!unhappy shilling that I was! Of what use were my silver, my stamp, andmy real value here, where all these qualities were worthless. In theeyes of the world, a man is valued just according to the opinionformed of him. It must be a shocking thing to have a guiltyconscience, and to be sneaking about on account of wicked deeds. Asfor me, innocent as I was, I could not help shuddering before theireyes whenever they brought me out, for I knew I should be thrownback again up the table as a false pretender. At length I was paidaway to a poor old woman, who received me as wages for a hard day'swork. But she could not again get rid of me. no one would take me. Iwas to the woman a most unlucky shilling. 'I am positively obligedto pass this shilling to somebody,' said she. 'I cannot, with the bestintentions, lay by a bad shilling. The rich baker shall have it, hecan bear the loss better than I can. But, after all, it is not a rightthing to do.'"'Ah!' sighed I to myself, 'am I also to be a burden on theconscience of this poor woman? Am I then in my old days socompletely changed?' The woman offered me to the rich baker, but heknew the current money too well, and as soon as he received me hethrew me almost in the woman's face. She could get no bread for me,and I felt quite grieved to the heart that I should be cause of somuch trouble to another, and be treated as a cast off coin. I who,in my young days, felt so joyful in the certainty of my own value, andknew so well that I bore a genuine stamp. I was as sorrowful now asa poor shilling can be when nobody will have him. The woman took mehome again with her, and looking at me very earnestly, she said,'No, I will not try to deceive any one with thee again. I will borea hole through thee, that everyone may know that thou art a falseand worthless thing. and yet, why should I do that? Very likely thouart a lucky shilling. A thought has just struck me that it is so,and I believe it. Yes, I will make a hole in the shilling,' saidshe, 'and run a string through it, and then give it to my neighbor'slittle one to hang round her neck, as a lucky shilling.' So shedrilled a hole through me."It is really not at all pleasant to have a hole bored throughone, but we can submit to a great deal when it is done with a goodintention. A string was drawn through the hole, and I became a kind ofmedal. They hung me round the neck of a little child, and the childlaughed at me and kissed me, and I rested for one whole night on thewarm, innocent breast of a child."In the morning the child's mother took me between her fingers,and had certain thoughts about me, which I very soon found out. First,she looked for a pair of scissors, and cut the string."'Lucky shilling!' said she, 'certainly this is what I mean totry.' Then she laid me in vinegar till I became quite green, and afterthat she filled up the hole with cement, rubbed me a little tobrighten me up, and went out in the twilight hour to the lotterycollector, to buy herself a ticket, with a shilling that shouldbring luck. How everything seemed to cause me trouble. The lotterycollector pressed me so hard that I thought I should crack. I had beencalled false, I had been thrown away, that I knew. and there weremany shillings and coins with inscriptions and stamps of all kindslying about. I well knew how proud they were, so I avoided them fromvery shame. With the collector were several men who seemed to have agreat deal to do, so I fell unnoticed into a chest, among severalother coins."Whether the lottery ticket gained a prize, I know not. but this Iknow, that in a very few days after, I was recognized as a badshilling, and laid aside. Everything that happened seemed always toadd to my sorrow. Even if a man has a good character, it is of nouse for him to deny what is said of him, for he is not considered animpartial judge of himself."A year passed, and in this way I had been changed from hand tohand. always abused, always looked at with displeasure, and trusted byno one. but I trusted in myself, and had no confidence in the world.Yes, that was a very dark time."At length one day I was passed to a traveller, a foreigner, thevery same who had brought me away from home. and he was simple andtrue hearted enough to take me for current coin. But would he alsoattempt to pass me? and should I again hear the outcry, 'False!good for nothing!' The traveller examined me attentively, 'I took theefor good coin,' said he. then suddenly a smile spread all over hisface. I have never seen such a smile on any other face as on his. 'Nowthis is singular,' said he, 'it is a coin from my own country. a good,true, shilling from home. Some one has bored a hole through it, andpeople have no doubt called it false. How curious that it shouldcome into my hands. I will take it home with me to my own house.'"Joy thrilled through me when I heard this. I had been once morecalled a good, honest shilling, and I was to go back to my own home,where each and all would recognize me, and know that I was made ofgood silver, and bore a true, genuine stamp. I should have been gladin my joy to throw out sparks of fire, but it has never at any timebeen my nature to sparkle. Steel can do so, but not silver. I waswrapped up in fine, white paper, that I might not mix with the othercoins and be lost. and on special occasions, when people from my owncountry happened to be present, I was brought forward and spoken ofvery kindly. They said I was very interesting, and it was really quiteworth while to notice that those who are interesting have often nota single word to say for themselves."At length I reached home. All my cares were at an end. Joyagain overwhelmed me. for was I not good silver, and had I not agenuine stamp? I had no more insults or disappointments to endure.although, indeed, there was a hole through me, as if I were false. butsuspicions are nothing when a man is really true, and every one shouldpersevere in acting honestly, for an will be made right in time.That is my firm belief," said the shilling.