One day a peasant took his good hazel stick out of the corner and saidto his wife, "Trina, I am going across country,and shall not return for three days. If during that time the cattle dealershould happen to call and want to buy our three cows,you may strike a bargain at once, but not unless you can get two hundredtalers for them, nothing less, do you hear.""In God's name, just go in peace," answered the woman, "I will managethat.""You, indeed," said the man. "You once fell on your head when you werea little child, and that affects you even now.But let me tell you this, if you do anything foolish, I will make yourback black and blue, and not with paint, I assure you, butwith the stick which I have in my hand. And the coloring shall last awhole year. You may rely on that." Having said that, theman went on his way.The next morning the cattle dealer came, and the woman had no need tosay many words to him. When he had seen thecows and heard the price, he said, "I am quite willing to give that.Honestly speaking, they are worth it. I will take theanimals away with me at once."He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the stall, but just ashe was going out of the farmyard gate, the womanclutched him by the sleeve and said, "You must give me the two hundredtalers now, or I cannot let the cows go.""Right," answered the man, "but I have forgotten to buckle on my moneybelt. Have no fear, however, you shall havesecurity until I pay. I will take two cows with me and leave one, so youwill have good collateral."The woman saw the wisdom of this, and let the man go away with thecows, and thought to herself, "How pleased Hanswill be when he finds how cleverly I have managed."The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would, and atonce inquired if the cows were sold. "Yes,indeed, dear Hans," answered the woman, "and as you said, for two hundredtalers. They are scarcely worth so much, butthe man took them without making any objection.""Where is the money?" asked the peasant. "Oh, I have not got themoney," replied the woman. "He had happened toforget his money belt, but he will soon bring it, and he left goodsecurity behind him.""What kind of security?" asked the man."One of the three cows, which he shall not have until he has paid forthe other two. I have managed very cunningly, for Ihave kept the smallest, which eats the least."The man was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to giveher the beating he had promised her, whensuddenly he lowered the stick and said, "You are the stupidest goose thatever waddled on God's earth, but I am sorry foryou. I will go out into the highway and wait for three days to see if Ifind anyone who is still stupider than you. If I succeed indoing so, you shall go free, but if I do not find him, you shall receiveyour well deserved reward without any discount."He went out into the great highway, sat down on a stone, and waited forwhat would come along. Then he saw a farmwagon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the middleof it, instead of sitting on the bundle of strawwhich was lying beside her, or walking near the oxen and leading them.The man thought to himself, "That is certainly one of the kind I am insearch of," and jumped up and ran back and forthin front of the wagon like one who is not in his right mind."What do you want, my friend?" said the woman to him. "I don't knowyou, where do you come from?""I have fallen down from heaven," replied the man, "and don't know howto get back again. Couldn't you drive meup?""No," said the woman, "I don't know the way. But if you come fromheaven you can surely tell me how my husband is,who has been there these three years. You must have seen him.""Oh, yes, I have seen him, but not everyone can get on well. He herdssheep, and these creatures give him a great dealto do. They run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness, andhe has to run after them and drive them togetheragain. His clothes are all torn to pieces too, and will soon fall off hisbody. There is no tailor there, for Saint Peter won't letany of them in, as you know by the story.""Who would have thought it?" cried the woman. "I tell you what. I willfetch his Sunday coat which is still hanging athome in the cupboard. He can wear that and look respectable. You will beso kind as to take it with you.""That won't be possible," answered the peasant. "People are not allowedto take clothes into heaven. They are takenaway at the gate.""Then listen to me," said the woman. "I sold my good wheat yesterdayand got a lot of money for it. I will send that tohim. If you hide the purse in your pocket, no one will know that you haveit.""If you can't manage it any other way," said the peasant, "I will doyou that favor.""Just sit still where you are," said she, "and I will drive home andfetch the purse. I shall soon be back again. I do not sitdown on the bundle of straw, but stand up in the wagon, because it makesit lighter for the cattle."She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought, "That woman has aperfect talent for folly. If she really brings themoney, my wife may think herself fortunate, for she will get nobeating."It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money, andwith her own hands put it in his pocket. Before shewent away, she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.When the woman got home again, she found her son who had come in fromthe field. She told him what unexpectedthings had befallen her, and then added, "I am truly delighted at havingfound an opportunity of sending something to mypoor husband. Who would ever have imagined that he could be suffering forwant of anything up in heaven?"The son was full of astonishment. "Mother," said he, it is not everyday that a man comes from heaven in this way. I willgo out immediately, and see if he is still to be found, he must tell mewhat it is like up there, and how the work is done.He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed. He found the peasantwho was sitting under a willow tree, and wasabout to count the money in the purse. "Have you seen the man who has comefrom heaven?" cried the youth to him."Yes," answered the peasant, "he has set out on his way back there, andhas gone up that hill, from whence it will berather nearer. You could still catch him up, if you ride fast.""Alas," said the youth, "I have been doing tiring work all day, and theride here has completely worn me out. You knowthe man. Be so kind as to get on my horse, and go and persuade him to comehere.""Aha," thought the peasant. "Here is another who has not no wick in hislamp.""Why should I not do you this favor?" said he, and mounted the horseand rode off at a quick trot. The youth remainedsitting there until night fell, but the peasant never came back."The man from heaven must certainly have been in a great hurry, andwould not turn back," thought he, "and the peasanthas no doubt given him the horse to take to my father." He went home andtold his mother what had happened, and that hehad sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be alwaysrunning about."You have done well," answered she. "You still have young legs and cango on foot."When the peasant got home, he put the horse in the stable beside thecow which had been left as security, and thenwent to his wife and said, "Trina, as your luck would have it, I havefound two who are still more stupid fools than you. Thistime you escape without a beating. I will store it up for anotheroccasion."Then he lighted his pipe, sat down in his grandfather's chair, andsaid, "It was a good stroke of business to get a sleekhorse and a great purse full of money into the bargain, for two lean cows.If stupidity always brought in as much as that, Iwould be quite willing to hold it in honor."So thought the peasant, but you no doubt prefer the simpletons.