Ikkor, the Jewish vizier of the king of Assyria, was the wisest man inthe land, but he was not happy. He was the greatest favorite of theking who heaped honors upon him, and the idol of the people who bowedbefore him in the streets and cast themselves on the ground at hisfeet to kiss the hem of his garment. Always he had a kindly word and asmile for those who sought his advice and guidance, but his eyes wereever sad, and tears would trickle down his cheeks as he watched thelittle children at play in the streets.His fame as a man of wisdom was known far beyond the borders ofAssyria, and rulers feared to give offense to the king who had Ikkoras the chief of his counselors to assist in the affairs of state. ButIkkor would oft sit alone in his beautiful palace and sigh heavily. Nosound of children's laughter was ever heard in the palace of Ikkor,and that was the cause of his sorrow. Ikkor was a pious man anddeeply learned in the Holy Law. and he had prayed long and devoutlyand had listened unto the advice of magicians that he might be blessedwith but one son, or even a daughter, to carry down his name andrenown. But the years passed and no child was born to him.Every year, on the advice of the king, he married another wife, andnow he had in his harem thirty wives, all childless. He determined totake unto himself no more wives, and one night he dreamed a dream inwhich a spirit appeared to him and said:"Ikkor, thou wilt die full of years and honor, but childless.Therefore, take Nadan, the son of thy widowed sister and let him be ason to thee."Nadan was a handsome youth of fifteen, and Ikkor related his dream tothe boy's mother who permitted him to take Nadan to his palace andthere bring him up as his own son. The sadness faded from the vizier'seyes as he watched the lad at his games and his lessons, and Ikkorhimself imparted wisdom to Nadan. But, first to his surprise, and thento his grief, Nadan was not thankful for the riches and love lavishedupon him. He neglected his lessons and grew proud, haughty andarrogant. He treated the servants of the household harshly and did notobey the wise maxims of Ikkor.The vizier, however, was hopeful that he would reform and gain wisdomwith years, and he took him to the palace of the king and appointedhim an officer of the royal guard. For Ikkor's sake, the king madeNadan one of his favorites, and all in the land looked upon the youngman as the successor of Ikkor and the future vizier. This only servedto make Nadan still more arrogant, and a wicked idea entered his headto gain further favor with the king and supplant Ikkor at once."O King, live for ever!" he said one day, when Ikkor was absent in adistant part of the land. "it grieves me to have to utter words ofwarning against Ikkor, the wise, the father who has adopted me. But heconspires to destroy thee."The king laughed at this suggestion, but he became serious when Nadanpromised to give him proof in three days. Nadan then set to work andwrote two letters. One was addressed to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, andread as follows:"Pharaoh, son of the Sun and mighty ruler on earth, live for ever!Thou wouldst reign over Assyria. Give ear then to my words and on thetenth day of the next month come with thy troops to the Eagle Plainbeyond the city, and I, Ikkor, the grand vizier, will deliver thineenemy, the King of Assyria, into thy hands."To this letter he forged Ikkor's name. then he took it to the king."I have found this," he said, "and have brought it to thee. It showsthee that Ikkor would deliver this country to thine enemy."The king was very angry and would have sent for Ikkor at once, butNadan counseled patience."Wait until the tenth of next month, the day of the annual review, andthou wilt see what will surprise thee still more," he said.Then he wrote the second letter. This was to Ikkor and was forged withthe king's name and sealed with the king's seal which he obtained. Itbade Ikkor on the tenth of the next month to assemble the troops onthe Eagle Plain to show how numerous they were to the foreign envoysand to pretend to attack the king, so as to demonstrate how well theywere drilled.The vizier returned the day before the review, and while the kingstood with Nadan and the foreign envoys, Ikkor and the troops, actingon their instructions, made a pretense of attacking his majesty."Do you not see?" said Nadan. "The king of Egypt not being here, Ikkorthreatens thee," and he immediately gave orders to the royaltrumpeters to sound "Halt!"Ikkor was brought before the king and confronted with the letter toPharaoh."Explain this, if thou canst," exclaimed the king, angrily. "I havetrusted thee and loaded thee with riches and honors and thou wouldstbetray me. Is not this thy signature, and is not thy seal appended?"Ikkor was too much astounded to reply, and Nadan whispered to the kingthat this proved his guilt."Lead him to the execution," cried the king, "and let his head besevered from his body and cast one hundred ells away."Falling on his knees, Ikkor pleaded that at least he should be grantedthe privilege of being executed within his own house so that he mightbe buried there.This request was granted, and Nabu Samak, the executioner, led Ikkor aprisoner to his palace. Nabu Samak was a great friend to Ikkor and itgrieved him to have to carry out the king's order."Ikkor," he said, "I am certain that thou art innocent, and I wouldsave thee. Hearken unto me. In the prison is a wretched highwayman whohas committed murder and who deserves death. His beard and hair arelike thine, and at a little distance he can easily be mistaken forthee. Him will I behead and his head will I show to the crowd, whilstthou canst hide and live in secret."Ikkor thanked his friend and the plan was carried out. The robber'shead was exhibited to the crowd from the roof of the house and thepeople wept because they thought it was the head of the good Ikkor.Meanwhile, the vizier descended into a cellar deep beneath his palaceand was there fed, while his adopted son, Nadan, was appointed chiefof the king's counselors in his stead.Now, when Pharaoh, king of Egypt, heard that Ikkor, the wise, had beenexecuted, he determined to make war upon Assyria. Therefore, hedispatched a letter to the king, asking him to send an architect todesign and build a palace in the clouds."If this thou doest," he wrote, "I, Pharaoh, son of the Sun, will paythee tribute. if thou failest, thou must pay me tribute."The king of Assyria was perplexed when he received this letter whichhad to be answered in three months. Nadan could not advise him what todo, and he bitterly regretted that Ikkor, the man of wisdom, was nolonger by his side to advise him."I would give one fourth of my kingdom to bring Ikkor to life again,"he exclaimed.Hearing these words, Nabu Samak, the executioner, fell on his kneesand confessed that Ikkor was alive."Bring him hither at once," cried the king.Ikkor could scarcely credit the truth when his friend came to him inthe cellar with the news, and the people wept tears of joy and pitywhen the old vizier was led through the streets. He presented a mostextraordinary spectacle.For twelve months he had been immured in the cellar and his beard hadgrown down to the ground, his hair descended below his shoulders andhis finger nails were several inches long. The king wept, too, when hesaw his old vizier."Ikkor," he said, "for months have I felt that thou wert innocent, andI have missed thy wise counsels. Help me in my difficulty and thoushalt be pardoned.""Your majesty," said Ikkor, "I desire nothing more than to serve thee.I am innocent. Time will prove me guiltless."When he saw Pharaoh's demand, he smiled."'Tis easy," he said. "I will go to Egypt and outwit Pharaoh."He gave orders that four of the tame eagles in the gardens of thepalace should be brought to him with cords five hundred ells longattached to their claws. Then he selected four youths, lithe offigure, and trained them to sit on the backs of the eagles and soaraloft. This done, he set out for Egypt with a big caravan and a longretinue of slaves."What is thy name?" asked Pharaoh, when he presented himself."My name is Akbam, and I am but the lowest of my king's advisers.""Does thy master then think my demand so simple?" asked Pharaoh.Ikkor bowed to indicate that this was so, and Pharaoh was much annoyedand puzzled."Perform thy task and at once," he commanded.At a sign from Ikkor, the four youths mounted the eagles which flewaloft to the extremity of their cords. The birds remained in the airtwo hundred ells apart, as they had been trained, and the lads heldcords in the form of a square."That is the plan of the palace in the clouds," said Ikkor, pointingaloft. "Bid your men carry up bricks and mortar. The task is so simplethat the boys will build."Pharaoh frowned. He had not expected to be thus outwitted, but hewould not immediately acknowledge this."In this land," he said, sarcastically, "we use no mortar. We sew thestones together. Canst thou do this?""Easily," replied Ikkor, "if your wise men can make me a thread ofsand.""And canst thou weave a thread of sand?" asked Pharaoh."I can," responded Ikkor.Noting the direction of the sun, he bored a tiny hole in the wall, anda thin sunbeam gleamed through. Then, taking a few grains of sand heblew them through the hole and in the sunbeam they seemed like athread."Take it, quickly," he cried, but of course nobody could do this.Pharaoh looked long and earnestly at Ikkor."Truly, thou art a man of wisdom," he said. "If he were not dead Ishould say thou wert Ikkor, the wise.""I am Ikkor," answered the vizier, and he told the story of hisescape."I will prove thy innocence," exclaimed Pharaoh. "I will write aletter to your royal master."Not only did he do so, but he gave Ikkor many valuable presents andthe vizier returned to Assyria, resumed his place by the king's side,and became a greater favorite than before. Nadan was banished and wasnever heard of again.