This story came from Clyde Trammel, of Grand Junction, and I haven't had an opportunity to check with him about it, but it seems that a friend of his and his friend's wife were driving by truck from Montrose to Grand Junction when they picked up an old man. They hauled him for a long way and he seemed to be very much read up on the current events. he knew a great deal about the war, and he talked very interestingly. They came to a long, desolate stretch of road, and the old man wanted out, and they tried to dissuade him and told him that he should go on down to more civilization, but he insisted on being let off. And they let him out on this long stretch of road.As he got out of the truck he thanked them, and he said, "On your way back you will be hauling a dead man." And then he says, "I suppose there's something you want to know?""Well, maybe the end of the war."He said, "The war will end in August."This was in 1944.Well, they went on, and they talked about the old man. And on the way back they picked up a dead man from a car wreck. There had been a wrecked car, and one of the fellows was killed, and they hauled the corpse back into Grand Junction. And of course it lent more credence to the old prediction of the end of the war. But August, '44, came and went, and the war still didn't end. However, in August, '45, the war ended, and they decided that the old man had been a Nephite.Q: They didn't decide that he was a Nephite until after the end of the war?A: Oh, yes. When they hauled the corpse back, they decided that he must have had some foreknowledge. and some of their friends had told them about the Nephites, and so they made up their minds that he was a Nephite. However, they began to doubt it when the war didn't end in August.Q: When did you first hear this story?A: This spring, 1946. And I heard it from Mrs. MacDougall, of Green River, Utah.Q: Was Mrs. MacDougall one of the persons concerned?A: No, she had heard the story from Clyde Trammel, who is a railroad man. And he, himself wasn't concerned in the story. It was some friends of his that had had the experience.Oral version transcribed from wire recorder.Salt Lake City, June 3, 1946.Informant: Pearl Baker (Age, about 45).Collector: Hector Lee.