It was ploughing time. A farmer started early for his fields, bidding his wife follow him soon with a pot of food.When the rice was ready the woman carried some to her husband, and put it down in the field at a little distance from him, saying, "Here is your food. I cannot stay now."In a little while, when the farmer went to look for his food, he found the pot empty. He was very angry at this, and when he got home in the evening sharply reproved his wife for playing tricks with him. She, of course, thought he was telling a lie, and felt very much aggrieved. On the following morning, before going out, he repeated his request that she would bring him some food, and not allow him to starve like a dog.That day she carried a double quantity of rice to him in a large earthen pot, and put it down in the field again, saying, "Look now, here is your dinner. Don't say I did not bring it. I cannot stay, as there is nobody left to look after the house." Thus saying, she went.In a little while a jackal came   the same as came on the previous day and ate up the man's food   and put its head into the pot. So eager was the beast to get at the rice, that it forced its head into the narrow neck of the pot, and could not take it out again. It was in a dreadful state. It ran about shaking its head and beating the pot against the ground to try and break it.At last the farmer saw what was the matter, and came running up with a knife, and exclaiming, "You thief! You stole my dinner, did you?""Oh, let me go!" cried the jackal. "Get me out of this pot and I will give you anything you may wish for.""Very well," said the farmer, and at once smashed the pot and extricated the animal."Thank you," said the jackal. "You shall not regret today's adventure." On this the beast wished the man "Good day," and started for a king's palace some miles distant."O king," it said on entering the royal chamber, "give me permission and I will arrange for your daughter's marriage. Be not angry with me. I should not have presumed to speak to your majesty on this matter if I had not lately seen one who is worthy in every way of the hand of the princess.""You can bring the man here," replied the king, "and I will see him."Then the jackal immediately started back for the farmer's house, and entering, asked him to prepare himself quickly for a visit to the king of the neighboring country, who was desirous of seeing him with a view of making him his son in law. At first the farmer demurred, on account of his ignorance and poverty. How would he know what to say to a king? How would he know how to behave in the company of so high a personage? And whence could he obtain suitable clothes for the visit But eventually the jackal prevailed on him to accept the king's invitation, and promised to help him in every possible way.So the jackal and the farmer started. When they arrived at the king's palace the jackal went in search of His Majesty, while the farmer squatted on the floor of the entrance hall by the palace, where the shoes were kept, and waited."I have brought the man of whom I spoke to your majesty the other day," said the jackal, going up to the king. "He has come in ordinary clothes and without any retinue or show, as he thought your majesty would be inconvenienced by having to arrange accommodation for so many people. Your majesty must not be offended in this thing, but the rather should see in it a proof of the man's good sense.""Most certainly," said the king, rising up. "Lead me to him.""There he is," said the jackal."What! That man squatting by the shoes?" exclaimed His Majesty. "Friend, why do you sit in such a place?" he asked the farmer."It is a nice clean place, your majesty, and good enough for a poor man like me," replied the farmer."Observe the humility of the man," interposed the jackal."You will stay in the palace this evening," said the king. "There are a few matters concerning which I wish to converse with you. Tomorrow, if convenient, I shall go and see your abode."That evening the king, the farmer, and the jackal talked much together. As will be supposed, the farmer constantly betrayed his humble position, but the clever jackal contrived to arrange matters so that the king on the whole was rather favorable to the match.But what about the morrow? The jackal had been revolving the matter over in its mind during the night. As soon as the king and the farmer started it asked for permission to go on ahead.It ran as fast as it could to the farmer's house and set it on fire, and when they drew near, went forth to meet them, crying, "O king, come not any farther, I beseech you. The man's house and property are destroyed. Some enemy's hand must have done this. Both of you turn back, I pray you."So the poor simple king turned back. In due time he married his daughter to the ignorant farmer.