Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had madetheir home in the mountains, far from any town. Their only neighbor wasa bad and malicious badger. This badger used to come out every nightand run across to the farmer's field and spoil the vegetables and therice which the farmer spent his time in carefully cultivating. Thebadger at last grew so ruthless in his mischievous work, and did somuch harm everywhere on the farm, that the good natured farmer couldnot stand it any longer, and determined to put a stop to it. So he layin wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping tocatch the badger, but all in vain. Then he laid traps for the wickedanimal.The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day ongoing his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug forthat purpose. The farmer was delighted at having caught his enemy, andcarried him home securely bound with rope. When he reached the housethe farmer said to his wife:"I have at last caught the bad badger. You must keep an eye on himwhile I am out at work and not let him escape, because I want to makehim into soup to night."Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse andwent out to his work in the fields. The badger was in great distress,for he did not at all like the idea of being made into soup that night,and he thought and thought for a long time, trying to hit upon someplan by which he might escape. It was hard to think clearly in hisuncomfortable position, for he had been hung upside down. Very nearhim, at the entrance to the storehouse, looking out towards the greenfields and the trees and the pleasant sunshine, stood the farmer's oldwife pounding barley. She looked tired and old. Her face was seamedwith many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and thenshe stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face."Dear lady," said the wily badger, "you must be very weary doing suchheavy work in your old age. Won't you let me do that for you? My armsare very strong, and I could relieve you for a little while!""Thank you for your kindness," said the old woman, "but I cannot letyou do this work for me because I must not untie you, for you mightescape if I did, and my husband would be very angry if he came home andfound you gone."Now, the badger is one of the most cunning of animals, and he saidagain in a very sad, gentle, voice:"You are very unkind. You might untie me, for I promise not to try toescape. If you are afraid of your husband, I will let you bind me againbefore his return when I have finished pounding the barley. I am sotired and sore tied up like this. If you would only let me down for afew minutes I would indeed be thankful!"The old woman had a good and simple nature, and could not think badlyof any one. Much less did she think that the badger was only deceivingher in order to get away. She felt sorry, too, for the animal as sheturned to look at him. He looked in such a sad plight hanging downwardsfrom the ceiling by his legs, which were all tied together so tightlythat the rope and the knots were cutting into the skin. So in thekindness of her heart, and believing the creature's promise that hewould not run away, she untied the cord and let him down.The old woman then gave him the wooden pestle and told him to do thework for a short time while she rested. He took the pestle, but insteadof doing the work as he was told, the badger at once sprang upon theold woman and knocked her down with the heavy piece of wood. He thenkilled her and cut her up and made soup of her, and waited for thereturn of the old farmer. The old man worked hard in his fields allday, and as he worked he thought with pleasure that no more now wouldhis labor be spoiled by the destructive badger.Towards sunset he left his work and turned to go home. He was verytired, but the thought of the nice supper of hot badger soup awaitinghis return cheered him. The thought that the badger might get free andtake revenge on the poor old woman never once came into his mind.The badger meanwhile assumed the old woman's form, and as soon as hesaw the old farmer approaching came out to greet him on the veranda ofthe little house, saying:"So you have come back at last. I have made the badger soup and havebeen waiting for you for a long time."The old farmer quickly took off his straw sandals and sat down beforehis tiny dinner tray. The innocent man never even dreamed that it wasnot his wife but the badger who was waiting upon him, and asked at oncefor the soup. Then the badger suddenly transformed himself back to hisnatural form and cried out:"You wife eating old man! Look out for the bones in the kitchen!"Laughing loudly and derisively he escaped out of the house and ran awayto his den in the hills. The old man was left behind alone. He couldhardly believe what he had seen and heard. Then when he understood thewhole truth he was so scared and horrified that he fainted right away.After a while he came round and burst into tears. He cried loudly andbitterly. He rocked himself to and fro in his hopeless grief. It seemedtoo terrible to be real that his faithful old wife had been killed andcooked by the badger while he was working quietly in the fields,knowing nothing of what was going on at home, and congratulatinghimself on having once for all got rid of the wicked animal who had sooften spoiled his fields. And oh! the horrible thought. he had verynearly drunk the soup which the creature had made of his poor oldwoman. "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear!" he wailed aloud. Now, not far awaythere lived in the same mountain a kind, good natured old rabbit. Heheard the old man crying and sobbing and at once set out to see whatwas the matter, and if there was anything he could do to help hisneighbor. The old man told him all that had happened. When the rabbitheard the story he was very angry at the wicked and deceitful badger,and told the old man to leave everything to him and he would avenge hiswife's death. The farmer was at last comforted, and, wiping away histears, thanked the rabbit for his goodness in coming to him in hisdistress.The rabbit, seeing that the farmer was growing calmer, went back to hishome to lay his plans for the punishment of the badger.The next day the weather was fine, and the rabbit went out to find thebadger. He was not to be seen in the woods or on the hillside or in thefields anywhere, so the rabbit went to his den and found the badgerhiding there, for the animal had been afraid to show himself ever sincehe had escaped from the farmer's house, for fear of the old man's wrath.The rabbit called out:"Why are you not out on such a beautiful day? Come out with me, and wewill go and cut grass on the hills together."The badger, never doubting but that the rabbit was his friend,willingly consented to go out with him, only too glad to get away fromthe neighborhood of the farmer and the fear of meeting him. The rabbitled the way miles away from their homes, out on the hills where thegrass grew tall and thick and sweet. They both set to work to cut downas much as they could carry home, to store it up for their winter'sfood. When they had each cut down all they wanted they tied it inbundles and then started homewards, each carrying his bundle of grasson his back. This time the rabbit made the badger go first.When they had gone a little way the rabbit took out a flint and steel,and, striking it over the badger's back as he stepped along in front,set his bundle of grass on fire. The badger heard the flint striking,and asked:"What is that noise. 'Crack, crack'?""Oh, that is nothing." replied the rabbit. "I only said 'Crack, crack'because this mountain is called Crackling Mountain."The fire soon spread in the bundle of dry grass on the badger's back.The badger, hearing the crackle of the burning grass, asked, "What isthat?""Now we have come to the 'Burning Mountain,'" answered the rabbit.By this time the bundle was nearly burned out and all the hair had beenburned off the badger's back. He now knew what had happened by thesmell of the smoke of the burning grass. Screaming with pain the badgerran as fast as he could to his hole. The rabbit followed and found himlying on his bed groaning with pain."What an unlucky fellow you are!" said the rabbit. "I can't imagine howthis happened! I will bring you some medicine which will heal your backquickly!"The rabbit went away glad and smiling to think that the punishment uponthe badger had already begun. He hoped that the badger would die of hisburns, for he felt that nothing could be too bad for the animal, whowas guilty of murdering a poor helpless old woman who had trusted him.He went home and made an ointment by mixing some sauce and red peppertogether.He carried this to the badger, but before putting it on he told himthat it would cause him great pain, but that he must bear it patiently,because it was a very wonderful medicine for burns and scalds and suchwounds. The badger thanked him and begged him to apply it at once. Butno language can describe the agony of the badger as soon as the redpepper had been pasted all over his sore back. He rolled over and overand howled loudly. The rabbit, looking on, felt that the farmer's wifewas beginning to be avenged.The badger was in bed for about a month. but at last, in spite of thered pepper application, his burns healed and he got well. When therabbit saw that the badger was getting well, he thought of another planby which he could compass the creature's death. So he went one day topay the badger a visit and to congratulate him on his recovery.During the conversation the rabbit mentioned that he was going fishing,and described how pleasant fishing was when the weather was fine andthe sea smooth.The badger listened with pleasure to the rabbit's account of the way hepassed his time now, and forgot all his pains and his month's illness,and thought what fun it would be if he could go fishing too. so heasked the rabbit if he would take him the next time he went out tofish. This was just what the rabbit wanted, so he agreed.Then he went home and built two boats, one of wood and the other ofclay. At last they were both finished, and as the rabbit stood andlooked at his work he felt that all his trouble would be well rewardedif his plan succeeded, and he could manage to kill the wicked badgernow.The day came when the rabbit had arranged to take the badger fishing.He kept the wooden boat himself and gave the badger the clay boat. Thebadger, who knew nothing about boats, was delighted with his new boatand thought how kind it was of the rabbit to give it to him. They bothgot into their boats and set out. After going some distance from theshore the rabbit proposed that they should try their boats and seewhich one could go the quickest. The badger fell in with the proposal,and they both set to work to row as fast as they could for some time.In the middle of the race the badger found his boat going to pieces,for the water now began to soften the clay. He cried out in great fearto the rabbit to help him. But the rabbit answered that he was avengingthe old woman's murder, and that this had been his intention all along,and that he was happy to think that the badger had at last met hisdeserts for all his evil crimes, and was to drown with no one to helphim. Then he raised his oar and struck at the badger with all hisstrength till he fell with the sinking clay boat and was seen no more.Thus at last he kept his promise to the old farmer. The rabbit nowturned and rowed shorewards, and having landed and pulled his boat uponthe beach, hurried back to tell the old farmer everything, and how thebadger, his enemy, had been killed.The old farmer thanked him with tears in his eyes. He said that tillnow he could never sleep at night or be at peace in the daytime,thinking of how his wife's death was unavenged, but from this time hewould be able to sleep and eat as of old. He begged the rabbit to staywith him and share his home, so from this day the rabbit went to staywith the old farmer and they both lived together as good friends to theend of their days.