Once upon a time there was a cook and a hen, who were out in a fieldscratching and scraping and pecking.All at once the hen found a barleycorn, and the cock found a bur of hops,and so they made up their minds they would make some malt and brew beerfor Christmas."I plucked the barley and I malted the corn and brewed the beer, and thebeer is good," cackled the hen."Is the wort strong enough?" said the cock, and flew up to the edge of thevat to taste it. but when he stooped down to take a sip he began flappingwith his wings and fell on his head into the vat and was drowned.When the hen saw this she was quite beside herself. She flew onto thehearth and began to scream and cry, "Got, got, got, drowned! Got, got,got, drowned!" And this she went on crying all the time and would notstop."What is the matter with you, Mother Tup, since you are crying andgrieving so?" asked the hand quern."Oh, Father Tup has fallen into the brewing vat and got drowned and therehe lies dead!" said the hen. "That's the reason I cry and grieve.""Well, if I can't do anything else I will grind and groan," said thehand quern, and began grinding as fast as it could.When the stool heard this it said, "What's the matter with you, quern,since you groan and grind so fast?""Oh, Father Tup has fallen into the brewing vat and got drowned. MotherTup is sitting on the hearth, crying and grieving. therefore I grind andgroan," said the hand quern."Well, if I can't do anything else I shall creak," said the stool, andbegan creaking and cracking.This the door heard, so it said, "What's the matter with you? Why are youcreaking, stool?""Oh, Father Tup has fallen into the brewing vat and got drowned. MotherTup is sitting on the hearth crying and grieving and the hand quern isgrinding and groaning. therefore I creak and crack and crackle," said thestool."Well, if I can't do anything else I'll bang and slam and whine andwhistle" said the door, and began opening and shutting and slamming andbanging till it went through one's bones and marrow to hear it.This the dustbin heard."Why are you slamming and banging like that, door?" said the bin."Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. therefore I keep slammingand banging," said the door."Well, if I can't do anything else I'll fume and smoke," said the dustbin,and began fuming and smoking and sending the dust up in clouds all overthe room.This the hay rake saw, as it stood peeping in through the window."Why are you raising the dust like that, dustbin?" asked the rake."Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. the door is slamming andbanging. therefore I keep fuming and smoking," said the dustbin."Well, if I can't do anything else I'll rake and rend," said the rake, andbegan rending and raking.This the aspen tree saw as it looked on."Why do you rend and rake like that, rake? said the tree."Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. the door is slamming andbanging. the dustbin is fuming and smoking. therefore I keep rending andraking," said the rake."Well, if I can't do anything else," said the aspen, "I will quiver andquake."This the birds noticed. "Why do you quiver and quake like that?" said thebirds to the tree."Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. the door is slamming andbanging. the dustbin is fuming and smoking. the rake is rending andraking. therefore I quiver and quake," said the aspen."Well, if we can't do anything else we will pluck off our feathers," saidthe birds, and began pecking and plucking till the feathers flew about thefarm like snow.The farmer stood looking on, and when he saw the feathers flying about heasked the birds, "Why are you plucking off your feathers like that,birds?""Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. the door is slamming andbanging. the dustbin is fuming and smoking. the rake is rending andraking. the aspen is quivering and quaking. therefore we keep pecking andplucking," said the birds."Well, if I can't do anything else I will pull the besoms to pieces," saidthe farmer, and began tugging and pulling the besoms to pieces, so thatthe twigs flew about, both east and west.His wife was boiling the porridge for supper when she saw this. "Why areyou pulling the besoms to pieces, husband?" said she."Oh, Father Tup fell into the brewing vat and got drowned. Mother Tup issitting on the hearth crying and grieving. the hand quern is grinding andgroaning. the stool is creaking and cracking. the door is slamming andbanging. the dustbin is fuming and smoking. the rake is rending andraking. the aspen is quivering and quaking. the birds are pecking andplucking off their feathers. therefore I am pulling the besom to pieces,"said the man."Well, then I'll daub the walls all over with porridge," she said. And sheset about it there and then, and took one ladleful after another andsmeared the porridge all over the walls, so that no one could see whatthey were made of.Then they kept the burial feast of the cock who fell into the brewing vat.And if you don't believe it, you had better go there and taste both thebeer and the porridge.