There were once upon a time five and twenty tin soldiers all brothers,as they were made out of the same old tin spoon. Their uniform was redand blue, and they shouldered their guns and looked straight in front ofthem. The first words that they heard in this world, when the lid of thebox in which they lay was taken off, were: 'Hurrah, tin soldiers!' Thiswas exclaimed by a little boy, clapping his hands. they had been givento him because it was his birthday, and now he began setting them out onthe table. Each soldier was exactly like the other in shape, except justone, who had been made last when the tin had run short. but there hestood as firmly on his one leg as the others did on two, and he is theone that became famous.There were many other playthings on the table on which they were beingset out, but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made ofcardboard, with windows through which you could see into the rooms. Infront of the castle stood some little trees surrounding a tiny mirrorwhich looked like a lake. Wax swans were floating about and reflectingthemselves in it. That was all very pretty. but the most beautiful thingwas a little lady, who stood in the open doorway. She was cut out ofpaper, but she had on a dress of the finest muslin, with a scarf ofnarrow blue ribbon round her shoulders, fastened in the middle with aglittering rose made of gold paper, which was as large as her head. Thelittle lady was stretching out both her arms, for she was a Dancer, andwas lifting up one leg so high in the air that the Tin soldier couldn'tfind it anywhere, and thought that she, too, had only one leg.'That's the wife for me!' he thought. 'but she is so grand, and lives ina castle, whilst I have only a box with four and twenty others. This isno place for her! But I must make her acquaintance.' Then he stretchedhimself out behind a snuff box that lay on the table. from thence hecould watch the dainty little lady, who continued to stand on one legwithout losing her balance.When the night came all the other tin soldiers went into their box,and the people of the house went to bed. Then the toys began to play atvisiting, dancing, and fighting. The tin soldiers rattled in their box,for they wanted to be out too, but they could not raise the lid. Thenut crackers played at leap frog, and the slate pencil ran about theslate. there was such a noise that the canary woke up and began to talkto them, in poetry too! The only two who did not stir from their placeswere the Tin soldier and the little Dancer. She remained on tip toe,with both arms outstretched. he stood steadfastly on his one leg, nevermoving his eyes from her face.The clock struck twelve, and crack! off flew the lid of the snuff box.but there was no snuff inside, only a little black imp that was thebeauty of it.'Hullo, Tin soldier!' said the imp. 'Don't look at things that aren'tintended for the likes of you!'But the Tin soldier took no notice, and seemed not to hear.'Very well, wait till to morrow!' said the imp.When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin soldier wasput in the window. and whether it was the wind or the little black imp,I don't know, but all at once the window flew open and out fell thelittle Tin soldier, head over heels, from the third storey window! Thatwas a terrible fall, I can tell you! He landed on his head with his legin the air, his gun being wedged between two paving stones.The nursery maid and the little boy came down at once to look for him,but, though they were so near him that they almost trod on him, they didnot notice him. If the Tin soldier had only called out 'Here I am!' theymust have found him. but he did not think it fitting for him to cry out,because he had on his uniform.Soon it began to drizzle. then the drops came faster, and there was aregular down pour. When it was over, two little street boys came along.'Just look!' cried one. 'Here is a Tin soldier! He shall sail up anddown in a boat!'So they made a little boat out of newspaper, put the Tin soldier in it,and made him sail up and down the gutter. both the boys ran along besidehim, clapping their hands. What great waves there were in the gutter,and what a swift current! The paper boat tossed up and down, and in themiddle of the stream it went so quick that the Tin soldier trembled. buthe remained steadfast, showed no emotion, looked straight in frontof him, shouldering his gun. All at once the boat passed under a longtunnel that was as dark as his box had been.'Where can I be coming now?' he wondered. 'Oh, dear! This is the blackimp's fault! Ah, if only the little lady were sitting beside me in theboat, it might be twice as dark for all I should care!'Suddenly there came along a great water rat that lived in the tunnel.'Have you a passport?' asked the rat. 'Out with your passport!'But the Tin soldier was silent, and grasped his gun more firmly.The boat sped on, and the rat behind it. Ugh! how he showed his teeth,as he cried to the chips of wood and straw: 'Hold him, hold him! he hasnot paid the toll! He has not shown his passport!'But the current became swifter and stronger. The Tin soldier couldalready see daylight where the tunnel ended. but in his ears theresounded a roaring enough to frighten any brave man. Only think! at theend of the tunnel the gutter discharged itself into a great canal. thatwould be just as dangerous for him as it would be for us to go down awaterfall.Now he was so near to it that he could not hold on any longer. On wentthe boat, the poor Tin soldier keeping himself as stiff as he could: noone should say of him afterwards that he had flinched. The boat whirledthree, four times round, and became filled to the brim with water: itbegan to sink! The Tin soldier was standing up to his neck in water, anddeeper and deeper sank the boat, and softer and softer grew the paper.now the water was over his head. He was thinking of the pretty littleDancer, whose face he should never see again, and there sounded in hisears, over and over again:'Forward, forward, soldier bold!Death's before thee, grim and cold!'The paper came in two, and the soldier fell but at that moment he wasswallowed by a great fish.Oh! how dark it was inside, even darker than in the tunnel, and it wasreally very close quarters! But there the steadfast little Tin soldierlay full length, shouldering his gun.Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions,and became suddenly quite still. Then it was as if a flash of lightninghad passed through him. the daylight streamed in, and a voice exclaimed,'Why, here is the little Tin soldier!' The fish had been caught, takento market, sold, and brought into the kitchen, where the cook had cut itopen with a great knife. She took up the soldier between her finger andthumb, and carried him into the room, where everyone wanted to see thehero who had been found inside a fish. but the Tin soldier was not atall proud. They put him on the table, and no, but what strange thingsdo happen in this world! the Tin soldier was in the same room in whichhe had been before! He saw the same children, and the same toys onthe table. and there was the same grand castle with the pretty littleDancer. She was still standing on one leg with the other high in theair. she too was steadfast. That touched the Tin soldier, he was nearlygoing to shed tin tears. but that would not have been fitting for asoldier. He looked at her, but she said nothing.All at once one of the little boys took up the Tin soldier, and threwhim into the stove, giving no reasons. but doubtless the little blackimp in the snuff box was at the bottom of this too.There the Tin soldier lay, and felt a heat that was truly terrible. butwhether he was suffering from actual fire, or from the ardour of hispassion, he did not know. All his colour had disappeared. whether thishad happened on his travels or whether it was the result of trouble, whocan say? He looked at the little lady, she looked at him, and he feltthat he was melting. but he remained steadfast, with his gun at hisshoulder. Suddenly a door opened, the draught caught up the littleDancer, and off she flew like a sylph to the Tin soldier in the stove,burst into flames and that was the end of her! Then the Tin soldiermelted down into a little lump, and when next morning the maid wastaking out the ashes, she found him in the shape of a heart. There wasnothing left of the little Dancer but her gilt rose, burnt as black as acinder.