Translated from the German of the Brothers Grimm.There was once a man who had three sons, and no other possessionsbeyond the house in which he lived. Now the father loved his three sonsequally, so that he could not make up his mind which of them should havethe house after his death, because he did not wish to favour any onemore than the others. And he did not want to sell the house, becauseit had belonged to his family for generations. otherwise he could havedivided the money equally amongst them. At last an idea struck him, andhe said to his sons: 'You must all go out into the world, and look aboutyou, and each learn a trade, and then, when you return, whoever canproduce the best masterpiece shall have the house.'The sons were quite satisfied. The eldest wished to be a blacksmith, thesecond a barber, and the third a fencing master. They appointed a timewhen they were to return home, and then they all set out.It so happened that each found a good master, where he learnt all thatwas necessary for his trade in the best possible way. The blacksmith hadto shoe the king's horses, and thought to himself, 'Without doubt thehouse will be yours!' The barber shaved the best men in the kingdom,and he, too, made sure that the house would be his. The fencing masterreceived many a blow, but he set his teeth, and would not allow himselfto be troubled by them, for he thought to himself, 'If you are afraid ofa blow you will never get the house.'When the appointed time had come the three brothers met once more, andthey sat down and discussed the best opportunity of showing off theirskill. Just then a hare came running across the field towards them.'Look!' said the barber, 'here comes something in the nick of time!'seized basin and soap, made a lather whilst the hare was approaching,and then, as it ran at full tilt, shaved its moustaches, without cuttingit or injuring a single hair on its body.'I like that very much indeed,' said the father. 'Unless the othersexert themselves to the utmost, the house will be yours.'Soon after they saw a man driving a carriage furiously towards them.'Now, father, you shall see what I can do!' said the blacksmith, and hesprang after the carriage, tore off the four shoes of the horse asit was going at the top of its speed, and shod it with four new oneswithout checking its pace.'You are a clever fellow!' said the father, 'and know your trade as wellas your brother. I really don't know to which of you I shall give thehouse.'Then the third son said, 'Father, let me also show you something.' and,as it was beginning to rain, he drew his sword and swung it in crosscuts above his head, so that not a drop fell on him, and the rain fellheavier and heavier, till at last it was coming down like a waterspout,but he swung his sword faster and faster, and kept as dry as if he wereunder cover.When the father saw this he was astonished, and said, 'You have producedthe greatest masterpiece: the house is yours.'Both the other brothers were quite satisfied, and praised him too, andas they were so fond of each other they all three remained at home andplied their trades: and as they were so experienced and skilful theyearned a great deal of money. So they lived happily together till theywere quite old, and when one was taken ill and died the two others wereso deeply grieved that they were also taken ill and died too. And so,because they had all been so clever, and so fond of each other, theywere all laid in one grave.