Where was it? Where was it not? Once upon a time there was a poor man whohad a very pious son who was a shepherd. One day he was grazing his sheepin a very mountainous area when, like someone whose heart was about tobreak because of a great wish, he uttered a deep sigh toward heaven.Hearing a quiet sound he looked around and saw Saint Peter as a gray oldman walking toward him."Why are you sighing so, my son?" he asked, "and what is your wish?""My only wish," he answered respectfully, "is a bag that can never befilled and a pelt that would make me invisible when I wrap myself in it."Peter granted these wishes, and then disappeared.The boy left his shepherd's things lying there and made his way to thecapital city. Here he hoped to find his luck, for a king lived here whohad twelve daughters, eleven of whom wore out at least six pairs of shoesevery night. This angered their father because it was costing him a goodpart of his income, and furthermore some people were thinking ill of hisdaughters. But in spite of all his cunning he could not discover how theywere doing this. Finally the king promised his youngest daughter to theman who could bring the mystery to the light of day.This promise lured a great many suitors to the capital city, but they wereall ridiculed by the girls, and they had to withdraw in shame. Theshepherd boy, trusting in his pelt, presented himself as well, and thegirls, as usual, measured him with spiteful looks.Night came, and the boy, wrapped in his pelt, lay down before theirbedroom door, then quickly slipped inside when they went to bed. Atmidnight a spirit entered and awoke each girl. There was a flurry ofactivity: they got dressed, made themselves beautiful, then stuffed atravel bag full of shoes. However, the youngest one did not see what washappening. Therefore the invisible shepherd boy, without being noticed,awoke her as well, which frightened the other sisters. However, because ithad already happened, they thought it would be best to tempt her to jointhem. After some hesitation the girl agreed to do so.When everyone was ready the spirit placed a basin on the table. Eachsister rubbed some of its contents onto her shoulders, and wingsimmediately grew from them. The shepherd boy did the same thing, and whenthey all flew out the window, he flew after them.After flying a few hours they came to a great copper forest and to a wellwith a copper railing on which were twelve copper cups. Here theyrefreshed themselves and drank. The youngest one, who was taking thisjourney for the first time, looked about fearfully. The boy drank as well,and as they were setting forth again, he put into his bag a cup and someleaves that he pulled from a tree,. The tree rustled noisily, soundingthrough the entire forest. The littlest girl noticed this and warned hersisters that someone was following them, but thinking they were safe, theyonly laughed at her.They flew onward, and before long they came to a silver forest and to awell with a silver railing. They drank here as before, and the boy againput a cup and a silver twig into his bag. At the sound of the twig beingbroken from the tree the smallest sister again warned her sisters, but tono avail.Leaving this forest they arrived at a golden forest, and a well with agolden railing and golden cups. They also stopped here, and the boy put agolden cup and a golden twig into his bag. Hearing the cracking sound, thesmallest sister alerted the others, but again they did nothing.After leaving this forest they came to a huge mountain cliff, whosemoss covered summit reached steeply toward heaven. They stopped here, andthe spirit struck the cliff with a golden wand, upon which it opened up,and they all went through the opening, the boy as well.They entered a marvelous room which opened into a hall that was decoratedwith fairy like splendor. Twelve handsome fairy youths approached them.Ever more servants appeared and busied themselves making all necessarypreparations for a magnificent ball. Magical music sounded forth. Thedoors opened onto a huge dance hall, and everything was happy and gay.As morning approached they returned home just as they had come (and theshepherd boy was with them). They lay down on their beds as though nothinghad happened, which their worn out shoes disproved, then got up at thenormal time.The king was waiting impatiently for any news that the shepherd boy mightbring, and in only a few minutes he told him everything that had happened.The girls were summoned, and they denied everything. However, the cups andthe twigs testified against them, and the littlest sister spoke againstthem as well, which was why the shepherd boy had awakened her.The king now fulfilled his promise, but the eleven girls were burned todeath as sorceresses.