Shortly after the birth of Kilhuch, the son of King Kilyth, his motherdied. Before her death she charged the king that he should not take awife again until he saw a briar with two blossoms upon her grave, andthe king sent every morning to see if anything were growing thereon.After many years the briar appeared, and he took to wife the widow ofKing Doged. She foretold to her stepson, Kilhuch, that it was hisdestiny to marry a maiden named Olwen, or none other, and he, at hisfather's bidding, went to the court of his cousin, King Arthur, to askas a boon the hand of the maiden. He rode upon a grey steed withshell formed hoofs, having a bridle of linked gold, and a saddle alsoof gold. In his hand were two spears of silver, well tempered, headedwith steel, of an edge to wound the wind and cause blood to flow, andswifter than the fall of the dew drop from the blade of reed grass uponthe earth when the dew of June is at its heaviest. A gold hilted swordwas on his thigh, and the blade was of gold, having inlaid upon it across of the hue of the lightning of heaven. Two brindled,white breasted greyhounds, with strong collars of rubies, sported roundhim, and his courser cast up four sods with its four hoofs like fourswallows about his head. Upon the steed was a four cornered cloth ofpurple, and an apple of gold was at each corner. Precious gold was uponthe stirrups and shoes, and the blade of grass bent not beneath them,so light was the courser's tread as he went towards the gate of KingArthur's palace.Arthur received him with great ceremony, and asked him to remain at thepalace. but the youth replied that he came not to consume meat anddrink, but to ask a boon of the king.Then said Arthur, "Since thou wilt not remain here, chieftain, thoushalt receive the boon, whatsoever thy tongue may name, as far as thewind dries and the rain moistens, and the sun revolves, and the seaencircles, and the earth extends, save only my ships and my mantle, mysword, my lance, my shield, my dagger, and Guinevere my wife."So Kilhuch craved of him the hand of Olwen, the daughter of YspathadenPenkawr, and also asked the favour and aid of all Arthur's court.Then said Arthur, "O chieftain, I have never heard of the maiden ofwhom thou speakest, nor of her kindred, but I will gladly sendmessengers in search of her."And the youth said, "I will willingly grant from this night to that atthe end of the year to do so."Then Arthur sent messengers to every land within his dominions to seekfor the maiden. and at the end of the year Arthur's messengers returnedwithout having gained any knowledge or information concerning Olwenmore than on the first day.Then said Kilhuch, "Every one has received his boon, and I yet lackmine. I will depart and bear away thy honour with me."Then said Kay, "Rash chieftain! dost thou reproach Arthur? Go with us,and we will not part until thou dost either confess that the maidenexists not in the world, or until we obtain her."Thereupon Kay rose up.Kay had this peculiarity, that his breath lasted nine nights and ninedays under water, and he could exist nine nights and nine days withoutsleep. A wound from Kay's sword no physician could heal. Very subtlewas Kay. When it pleased him he could render himself as tall as thehighest tree in the forest. And he had another peculiarity so greatwas the heat of his nature, that, when it rained hardest, whatever hecarried remained dry for a handbreadth above and a handbreadth belowhis hand. and when his companions were coldest, it was to them as fuelwith which to light their fire.And Arthur called Bedwyr, who never shrank from any enterprise uponwhich Kay was bound. None was equal to him in swiftness throughout thisisland except Arthur and Drych Ail Kibthar. And although he wasone handed, three warriors could not shed blood faster than he on thefield of battle. Another property he had. his lance would produce awound equal to those of nine opposing lances.And Arthur called to Kynthelig the guide. "Go thou upon this expeditionwith the Chieftain." For as good a guide was he in a land which he hadnever seen as he was in his own.He called Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd, because he knew all tongues.He called Gwalchmai, the son of Gwyar, because he never returned homewithout achieving the adventure of which he went in quest. He was thebest of footmen and the best of knights. He was nephew to Arthur, theson of his sister, and his cousin.And Arthur called Menw, the son of Teirgwaeth, in order that if theywent into a savage country, he might cast a charm and an illusion overthem, so that none might see them whilst they could see every one.They journeyed on till they came to a vast open plain, wherein they sawa great castle, which was the fairest in the world. But so far away wasit that at night it seemed no nearer, and they scarcely reached it onthe third day. When they came before the castle they beheld a vastflock of sheep, boundless and without end. They told their errand tothe herdsman, who endeavoured to dissuade them, since none who had comethither on that quest had returned alive. They gave to him a gold ring,which he conveyed to his wife, telling her who the visitors were.On the approach of the latter, she ran out with joy to greet them, andsought to throw her arms about their necks. But Kay, snatching a billetout of the pile, placed the log between her two hands, and she squeezedit so that it became a twisted coil."O woman," said Kay, "if thou hadst squeezed me thus, none could everagain have set their affections on me. Evil love were this."They entered the house, and after meat she told them that the maidenOlwen came there every Saturday to wash. They pledged their faith thatthey would not harm her, and a message was sent to her. So Olwen came,clothed in a robe of flame coloured silk, and with a collar of ruddygold, in which were emeralds and rubies, about her neck. More goldenwas her hair than the flower of the broom, and her skin was whiter thanthe foam of the wave, and fairer were her hands and her fingers thanthe blossoms of the wood anemone amidst the spray of the meadowfountain. Brighter were her glances than those of a falcon. her bosomwas more snowy than the breast of the white swan, her cheek redder thanthe reddest roses. Whoso beheld was filled with her love. Four whitetrefoils sprang up wherever she trod, and therefore was she calledOlwen.Then Kilhuch, sitting beside her on a bench, told her his love, and shesaid that he would win her as his bride if he granted whatever herfather asked.Accordingly they went up to the castle and laid their request beforehim."Raise up the forks beneath my two eyebrows which have fallen over myeyes," said Yspathaden Penkawr, "that I may see the fashion of myson in law."They did so, and he promised, them an answer on the morrow. But as theywere going forth, Yspathaden seized one of the three poisoned dartsthat lay beside him and threw it back after them.And Bedwyr caught it and flung it back, wounding Yspathaden in the knee.Then said he, "A cursed ungentle son in law, truly. I shall ever walkthe worse for his rudeness. This poisoned iron pains me like the biteof a gad fly. Cursed be the smith who forged it, and the anvil whereonit was wrought."The knights rested in the house of Custennin the herdsman, but the nextday at dawn they returned to the castle and renewed their request.Yspathaden said it was necessary that he should consult Olwen's fourgreat grandmothers and her four great grand sires.The knights again withdrew, and as they were going he took the seconddart and cast it after them.But Menw caught it and flung it back, piercing Yspathaden's breast withit, so that it came out at the small of his back."A cursed ungentle son in law, truly," says he, "the hard iron pains melike the bite of a horse leech. Cursed be the hearth whereon it washeated! Henceforth whenever I go up a hill, I shall have a scant in mybreath and a pain in my chest."On the third day the knights returned once more to the palace, andYspathaden took the third dart and cast it at them.But Kilhuch caught it and threw it vigorously, and wounded him throughthe eyeball, so that the dart came out at the back of his head."A cursed ungentle son in law, truly. As long as I remain alive myeyesight will be the worse. Whenever I go against the wind my eyes willwater, and peradventure my head will burn, and I shall have a giddinessevery new moon. Cursed be the fire in which it was forged. Like thebite of a mad dog is the stroke of this poisoned iron."And they went to meat.Said Yspathaden Penkawr, "Is it thou that seekest my daughter?""It is I," answered Kilhuch."I must have thy pledge that thou wilt not do towards me otherwise thanis just, and when I have gotten that which I shall name, my daughterthou shalt have.""I promise thee that willingly," said Kilhuch, "name what thou wilt.""I will do so," said he."Throughout the world there is not a comb or scissors with which I canarrange my hair, on, account of its rankness, except the comb andscissors that are between the two ears of Turch Truith, the son ofPrince Tared. He will not give them of his own free will, and thou wiltnot be able to compel him.""It will be easy for me to compass this, although thou mayest thinkthat it will not be easy.""Though thou get this, there is yet that which thou wilt not get. Itwill not be possible to hunt Turch Truith without Drudwyn the whelp ofGreid, the son of Eri, and know that throughout the world there is nota huntsman who can hunt with this dog, except Mabon the son of Modron.He was taken from his mother when three nights old, and it is not knownwhere he now is, nor whether he is living or dead.""It will be easy for me to compass this, although thou mayest thinkthat it will not be easy.""Though thou get this, there is yet that which thou wilt not get. Thouwilt not get Mabon, for it is not known where he is, unless thou findEidoel, his kinsman in blood, the son of Aer. For it would be uselessto seek for him. He is his cousin.""It will be easy for me to compass this, although thou mayest thinkthat it will not be easy. Horses shall I have, and chivalry. and mylord and kinsman Arthur will obtain for me all these things. And Ishall gain thy daughter, and thou shalt lose thy life.""Go forward. And thou shalt not be chargeable for food or raiment formy daughter while thou art seeking these things. and when thou hastcompassed all these marvels, thou shalt have my daughter for wife."Now, when they told Arthur how they had sped, Arthur said, "Which ofthese marvels will it be best for us to seek first?""It will be best," said they, "to seek Mabon the son of Modron. and hewill not be found unless we first find Eidoel, the son of Aer, hiskinsman."Then Arthur rose up, and the warriors of the Islands of Britain withhim, to seek for Eidoel. and they proceeded until they came before thecastle of Glivi, where Eidoel was imprisoned.Glivi stood on the summit of his castle, and said, "Arthur, whatrequirest thou of me, since nothing remains to me in this fortress, andI have neither joy nor pleasure in it. neither wheat nor oats?"Said Arthur, "Not to injure thee came I hither, but to seek for theprisoner that is with thee.""I will give thee my prisoner, though I had not thought to give him upto any one. and therewith shalt thou have my support and my aid."His followers then said unto Arthur, "Lord, go thou home, thou canstnot proceed with thy host in quest of such small adventures as these."Then said Arthur, "It were well for thee, Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd,to go upon this quest, for thou knowest all languages, and art familiarwith those of the birds and the beasts. Go, Eidoel, likewise with mymen in search of thy cousin. And as for you, Kay and Bedwyr, I havehope of whatever adventure ye are in quest of, that ye will achieve it.Achieve ye this adventure for me."These went forward until they came to the Ousel of Cilgwri, and Gwrhyradjured her for the sake of Heaven, saying, "Tell me if thou knowestaught of Mabon, the son of Modron, who was taken when three nights oldfrom between his mother and the wall."And the Ousel answered, "When I first came here there was a smith'sanvil in this place, and I was then a young bird, and from that time nowork has been done upon it, save the pecking of my beak every evening,and now there is not so much as the size of a nut remaining thereof.yet the vengeance of Heaven be upon me if during all that time I haveever heard of the man for whom you inquire. Nevertheless, there is arace of animals who were formed before me, and I will be your guide tothem."So they proceeded to the place where was the Stag of Redynvre."Stag of Redynvre, behold we are come to thee, an embassy from Arthur,for we have not heard of any animal older than thou. Say, knowest thouaught of Mabon?"The stag said, "When first I came hither there was a plain all aroundme, without any trees save one oak sapling, which grew up to be an oakwith an hundred branches. And that oak has since perished, so that nownothing remains of it but the withered stump. and from that day to thisI have been here, yet have I never heard of the man for whom youinquire. Nevertheless, I will be your guide to the place where there isan animal which was formed before I was."So they proceeded to the place where was the Owl of Cwm Cawlwyd, toinquire of him concerning Mabon.And the owl said, "If I knew I would tell you. When first I camehither, the wide valley you see was a wooded glen. And a race of mencame and rooted it up. And there grew there a second wood, and thiswood is the third. My wings, are they not withered stumps? Yet all thistime, even until to day, I have never heard of the man for whom youinquire. Nevertheless, I will be the guide of Arthur's embassy untilyou come to the place where is the oldest animal in this world, and theone who has travelled most, the eagle of Gwern Abwy."When they came to the eagle, Gwrhyr asked it the same question. but itreplied, "I have been here for a great space of time, and when I firstcame hither there was a rock here, from the top of which I pecked atthe stars every evening, and now it is not so much as a span high. Fromthat day to this I have been here, and I have never heard of the manfor whom you inquire, except once when I went in search of food as faras Llyn Llyw. And when I came there, I struck my talons into a salmon,thinking he would serve me as food for a long time. But he drew me intothe deep, and I was scarcely able to escape from him. After that I wentwith my whole kindred to attack him and to try to destroy him, but hesent messengers and made peace with me, and came and besought me totake fifty fish spears out of his back. Unless he know something of himwhom you seek, I cannot tell you who may. However, I will guide you tothe place where he is."So they went thither, and the eagle said, "Salmon of Llyn Llyw, I havecome to thee with an embassy from Arthur to ask thee if thou knowestaught concerning Mabon, the son of Modron, who was taken away at threenights old from between his mother and the wall."And the salmon answered, "As much as I know I will tell thee. Withevery tide I go along the river upwards, until I come near to the wallsof Gloucester, and there have I found such wrong as I never foundelsewhere. and to the end that ye may give credence thereto, let one ofyou go thither upon each of my two shoulders."So Kay and Gwrhyr went upon his shoulders, and they proceeded till theycame to the wall of the prison, and they heard a great wailing andlamenting from the dungeon. Said Gwrhyr, "Who is it that laments inthis house of stone?"And the voice replied, "Alas, it is Mabon, the son of Modron, who ishere imprisoned!"Then they returned and told Arthur, who, summoning his warriors,attacked the castle.And whilst the fight was going on, Kay and Bedwyr, mounting on theshoulders of the fish, broke into the dungeon, and brought away withthem Mabon, the son of Modron.Then Arthur summoned unto him all the warriors that were in the threeislands of Britain and in the three islands adjacent. and he went asfar as Esgeir Ocrvel in Ireland where the Boar Truith was with hisseven young pigs. And the dogs were let loose upon him from all sides.But he wasted the fifth part of Ireland, and then set forth through thesea to Wales. Arthur and his hosts, and his horses, and his dogsfollowed hard after him. But ever and awhile the boar made a stand, andmany a champion of Arthur's did he slay. Throughout all Wales didArthur follow him, and one by one the young pigs were killed. Atlength, when he would fain have crossed the Severn and escaped intoCornwall, Mabon the son of Modron came up with him, and Arthur fellupon him together with the champions of Britain. On the one side Mabonthe son of Modron spurred his steed and snatched his razor from him,whilst Kay came up with him on the other side and took from him thescissors. But before they could obtain the comb he had regained theground with his feet, and from the moment that he reached the shore,neither dog nor man nor horse could overtake him until he came toCornwall. There Arthur and his hosts followed in his track until theyovertook him in Cornwall. Hard had been their trouble before, but itwas child's play to what they met in seeking the comb. Win it they did,and the Boar Truith they hunted into the deep sea, and it was neverknown whither he went.Then Kilhuch set forward, and as many as wished ill to YspathadenPenkawr. And they took the marvels with them to his court. And Kaw ofNorth Britain came and shaved his beard, skin and flesh clean off tothe very bone from ear to ear."Art thou shaved, man?" said Kilhuch."I am shaved," answered he."Is thy daughter mine now?""She is thine, but therefore needst thou not thank me, but Arthur whohath accomplished this for thee. By my free will thou shouldst neverhave had her, for with her I lose my life."Then Goreu the son of Custennin seized him by the hair of his head anddragged him after him to the keep, and cut off his head and placed iton a stake on the citadel.Thereafter the hosts of Arthur dispersed themselves each man to his owncountry.Thus did Kilhuch son of Kelython win to wife Olwen, the daughter ofYspathaden Penkawr.