In the vicinity of Niedenstein there lived in ancient times a wealthynobleman, who occupied himself hunting. At home he had a beautiful butproud wife.One morning when the noblewoman was home alone a poor woman knocked ather door. She was holding one child by the hand, carrying one on her arm,and had yet another one beneath her heart. She asked for alms."Get out of here!" cried out the hard hearted noblewoman. "Why must youpoor people have so many children, if you can't afford to feed them?"The woman turned away, saying as she left, "May one day you be givenseven at one time!"Not long afterward the noblewoman did indeed give birth to seven boysat one time. In her fear, she commanded her servant girl to put six of theboys into a basket and to carry them away and throw them into the waterbefore her husband returned home. "If on your way anyone questions you,"she said, "just tell them that you have some young dogs to be drowned. buton your life, do not open the lid."The servant girl did as she had been ordered, but as fate would haveit, the first person she met was the nobleman, who was just returninghome."What do you have in the basket?" he asked.The servant girl answered uneasily, "Young dogs. My mistress ordered meto throw them into the water.""Let me see the dogs," said the nobleman.Whatever excuses the servant girl made, and however she tried torefuse, it was all to no avail, and in the end she had to open the basket.Instead of dogs, the nobleman was startled to see six healthy boys.They reached out their arms toward him and look up at him imploringly withtheir large blue eyes. He forced the servant girl to tell her secret andmade her swear that she would report back at home that she had carried outher errand. He then took the basket and went to the pastor in the nextvillage."Would you baptize six young dogs for me?" he asked the pious man, whowas outraged at such disrespect and sent the nobleman away. The same thinghappened at a second pastor. However, the third pastor he sought out saidthat he was willing to baptize the dogs.Each of the boys was given the name "Dog." The nobleman made a donationto the pastor at Metz which even today is at the parsonage and is calledthe "dog tithe."The nobleman found a different foster home for each of the boys, but healways made sure that each one was dressed in the same way that the boywas dressed who had been kept by his wife.After they had grown up he summoned them all to his castle. The proudwife was startled to see them, but even more when her husband asked herwhat a mother would deserve who tried to drown six such splendid boys.She composed herself quickly and responded with impudence, "She woulddeserve to be placed in a barrel studded with nails, and then rolled downa mountain.""You have spoken your own judgment," said the nobleman, "for these are your children who were rescued for me by a fortunate coincidence from the death that you prepared for them.And he had the judgment carried out.