A hare insulted the tortoise upon account of his slowness, and vainlyboasted of her great speed in running. "Let us make a match," replied thetortoise. "I will run with you five miles for five pounds, and the foxyonder shall be umpire of the race."The hare agreed, and away they both started together. But the hare, byreason of her exceeding swiftness, outran the tortoise to such a degree,that she made a jest of the matter. and finding herself a little tiredsquatted in a tuft of fern, that grew by the way, and took a nap. thinkingthat if the tortoise went by, she could at any time fetch him up, with allthe ease imaginable. In the meanwhile, the tortoise came jogging on, witha slow but continued motion. and the hare, out of a too great security andconfidence of victory, oversleeping herself, the tortoise arrived at theend of the race first.THE APPLICATIONIndustry and application to business makes amends for the want of a quickand ready wit. Hence it is, that the victory is not always to the strong,nor the race to the swift. Men of fine parts are apt to despise thedrudgery of business. but by affecting to show the superiority of theirgenius, upon many occasions, they run into too great an extreme the otherway. and the administration of their affairs is ruined through idlenessand neglect. What advantage has a man from the fertility of his invention,and the vivacity of his imagination, unless his resolutions are executedwith a suitable and uninterrupted rapidity? In short, your men of wit andfire, as they are called, are often times sots, slovens, and lazy fellows.they are generally proud and conceited to the last degree. and in themain, not the fittest persons for either conversation or business.   Suchis their vanity, they think the sprightliness of their humor inconsistentwith a plain sober way of thinking and speaking, and able to atone for allthe little neglects of their business and person. But the world will notbe thus imposed upon: the man who would gain the esteem of others, andmake his own fortune, must be one that carries his point effectually, andfinishes his course without swerving and loitering. Men of dull parts, andslow apprehension, assisted by a continued diligence, are more likely toattain this, than your brisk retailers of wit, with their affected spleenand indolence. And, if business be but well done, no matter whether it bedone by the sallies of a refined wit, or the considering head of a plainplodding man.