The miller of Sandhills had a donkey which had served him well in itstime, but was now too old to work. The miller was a careful man, who didnot believe in feeding useless mouths, so he decided that he would sellthe donkey for the price of its skin."I do not suppose I shall get very much for the wretched beast," hesaid, regarding poor Grayskin as he stood with hanging head in his stall,"but I shall save the cost of his corn anyhow, and that is alwayssomething."Left alone, Grayskin reflected sadly upon the fate in store for him."Such is the way of the world," he thought. "When I was young and heartynothing was too good for me. Now I'm old and useless I am to be cast out.But am I so useless after all? True, I can no longer pull a cart tomarket, but I have a magnificent voice still. There must be a placesomewhere for one who can sing as beautifully as I. I'll go to theCathedral of St. Gudule in Brussels and offer myself as a chorister."Grayskin lost no time in acting upon his resolve, but left his stableimmediately and set out on the road to Brussels. Passing the burgomaster'shouse he saw an old hound sitting disconsolately on the doorstep."Hallo, friend!" said he. "What is the matter with you? You seem verysad this morning.""The matter is that I am tired of life," answered the dog. "I'm gettingold and stiff, and I can no longer hunt hares for my master as I used todo. The result is that I am reckoned good for nothing, and they grudge meevery morsel of food I put into my mouth.""Come, come, cheer up, my friend," said Grayskin. "Never say die! I amin a similar case to yourself and have just left my master for preciselythe same reason. My plan is to go to the Cathedral of St. Gudule and offermy services to the master of the choir. If I may say so without conceit, Ihave a lovely voice   one must make the most of one's gifts, you know  and I ought to be able to command good pay.""Well, if it comes to that," said the dog, "I can sing too. I sang alovely song to the moon last night, and if you'll believe me, all thepeople in our street opened their windows to listen. I sang for quite anhour, and I'd have gone on longer if some malicious person, who was nodoubt jealous, had not thrown an old boot at my head.""Excellent," said Grayskin. "Come along with me. You shall sing tenorand I'll sing bass. We'll make a famous pair."So the dog joined company with Grayskin, and they went on togethertowards Brussels.A little farther down the road they saw a cat sitting on the rubbishheap outside a miserable hovel. The creature was half blind with age andhad a face as long as a fiddle."Why, what is the matter with you?" asked Grayskin, who had a tenderheart."Matter enough," said the cat. "I've just been turned out of house andhome, and all because I took a little piece of bacon from the larder. Uponmy honor, it was no bigger than a baby's fist, but they made as much fussas though it had been a whole gammon. I was beaten and kicked out tostarve. If I could catch mice as I used to do, it would not matter somuch, but the mice are too quick for me nowadays. They laugh at me.Nothing remains for me but to die, and I hope it may be soon.""Nonsense," said Grayskin. "You shall live to laugh at all yourtroubles. Come along with us and sing in the choir at St. Gudule. Yourvoice is a little too thin for my own taste, but you'll make a very goodsoprano in a trio. What do you say?""You give me new hopes," answered the cat. "Of course I'll join you,"and so the three went on together.Towards nightfall they arrived at a farmyard, on the gate of which acock was crowing lustily."Hall!" said Grayskin. "What's all this about?""I am singing my last song on earth," said the cock. "An hour ago Isang a song, although it is not my usual custom to crow in the afternoon,and as I ended I heard the farmer's wife say, 'Hearken to Chanticleer.He's crowing for fine weather tomorrow. I wonder if he'd crow so loudly ifhe knew that we had guests coming, and that he was going into the pot tomake their soup!' She has a horrid laugh, that woman. I have always hatedher!""And do you mean to tell me," said Grayskin, "that you are going tostay here quite contentedly till they come to wring your neck?""What else can I do?" asked Chanticleer."Join us and turn your talents to account. We are all beautiful singersand we are going to Brussels to offer ourselves as choristers at St.Gudule. We were a trio before. With you we shall be a quartet, and that'sone better!"Chanticleer was only too glad to find a means of escape, so hewillingly joined the party, and they once more took the road.A little while afterwards they came to a thick wood, which was thehaunt of a notorious band of robbers. There they decided to rest for thenight, so Grayskin and the dog lay down beneath the shelter of a largebeech tree, while the cat climbed onto one of the branches, andChanticleer perched himself at the very top. From this lofty post he couldsee over the whole wood, and it was not long before he espied a lighttwinkling among the trees not far away."There must be a house of some sort over there," he said to hiscompanions. "Shall we go and see? We may find something to eat.""Or some straw to lie upon, at any rate," said Grayskin. "This dampground gives me rheumatics in my old bones.""I was just thinking the same thing," said the dog. "Let us go."So the four choristers, led by the cock, walked in the direction fromwhich the light came, and before long they found themselves in front of alittle house, the windows of which were brilliantly lighted. In order toreach to the windows the animals made a tower of their bodies, withGrayskin at the bottom and Chanticleer at the top.Now this house was the abode of a band of robbers, who, at that verymoment, were seated before a table laden with all kinds of food. Therethey sat and feasted, and poor Chanticleer's mouth watered as he watchedthem."Is there anybody inside?" asked the dog, who was impatient."Hush!" said Chanticleer. "Men! They're eating their dinner!""I wish I was," said the dog. "What are they eating?""All sorts of things   sausage and fish ....""Sausage!" said the dog."Fish!" said the cat."And ever so many other delicacies," Chanticleer went on. "Look here,friends. Wouldn't it be a fine thing if we could get a share of theirmeal? I confess that my stomach aches with hunger.""And mine too," said the dog. "I've never been so hungry in my life.But how are we to get the food?""Let us serenade them, and perhaps they'll throw us something as areward," said Grayskin. "Music, you know, has charms to soothe the savagebreast."This seemed such a good idea that the choristers lost no time inputting it into execution. All four began to sing. They donkey hee hawed,the dog howled, the cat meowed, and the cock crowed. From the noise theymade one would have thought that the heavens were falling.The effect of this marvelous quartet upon the robbers wasinstantaneous. Leaping from their seats, they ran from place to place inmortal terror, tumbling over one another, oversetting chairs and adding tothe racket by their shrieks and cries. At that moment the cock fellagainst the window, breaking the glass to smithereens. The donkey gave theframe a push, and all the four precipitated themselves into the room.This was the last straw. The robbers could stand no more. Half mad withfear they rushed to the door and fled into the forest.Then our four choristers drew up to the table and set to work upon thefood with which it was laden. Their long walk had given them a goodappetite, so that there was little left by the time they had finished.Feeling drowsy after their meal, they then settled themselves to sleep.The donkey made himself a bed on a heap of straw in the yard. the dogstretched himself out upon the mat by the house door. the cat lay amongthe warm cinders on the hearth. and the cock perched upon the rooftop. Afew minutes more and they were all fast asleep.Meanwhile the robbers, who had retreated some distance into the forest,waited anxiously for something dreadful to happen. An hour passed by andthere was neither sight nor sound to alarm them, so they began to feel alittle ashamed of their cowardice. Creeping stealthily nearer to thecottage, they saw that everything was still, and that no light was showingfrom the windows.At last the robber chief sent his lieutenant to spy out the land, andthis man, returning to the cottage without mishap, found his way into thekitchen and proceeded to light a candle. He had no matches, but he saw twosparks of fire among the cinders on the hearth, so he went forward to geta light from them.Now this light came from the cat's eyes, and as soon as puss felt therobber touch her, she sprang up, snarling and spitting, and scratched hisface. With a scream of terror, he dropped his candle and rushed for thedoor, and as he passed, the dog bit him in the leg. By this time the noisehad awakened Grayskin, who got upon his feet just as the man ran by, andhelped him forward with a might kick, which sent him flying out into theroadway. Seeing this, the cock on the housetop spread his wings and crowedin triumph, "Cock a doodle doo!"I wish you could have seen the way that robber ran! He covered theground so quickly that he seemed like a flying shadow, and I am perfectlycertain that not even a hare could have overtaken him. At last, pantingfor breath, he rejoined his comrades in the forest, who were eagerlyawaiting his return."Well," cried the chief, "is the way clear? Can we go back?""Not on any account," cried the robber. "There's a horrible witch inthe kitchen. Directly I entered she sprang at me and tore my face with herlong claws, calling out at the same time to her creatures to come anddevour me. As I ran through the door, one of them buried his fangs in myleg, and a little farther on, in the yard, a great black monster struck atme with an enormous club, giving me a blow that nearly broke my backbone.On the roof a little demon with wings and eyes that shone like coals offire cried, 'Stop him! Eat him! Stop him! Eat him!' You may guess that Idid not wait for more. It is a miracle that I have escaped with my life!"When they heard this terrible story the robbers lost no time indecamping, and such was their terror that they deserted the forestaltogether and went away to another part of the country. The result wasthat our four friends were left to dwell in the cottage, where they livedhappily for the rest of their lives, and as they had now everything theywanted, they quite gave up their idea of going to St. Gudule.