Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that the first (who was namedEl Baboo) was the lame one. He practised the art of a tailor inBaghdad, and used to sew in a shop which he hired of a man possessinggreat wealth, who lived over the shop, and who had, in the lower part ofhis house, a mill. And as my lame brother was sitting in his shop oneday, sewing, he raised his head, and saw a woman like the rising fullmoon, at a projecting window of the house, looking at the people passingby. and as soon as he beheld her, his heart was entangled by her love.He passed that day gazing at her, and neglecting his occupation, untilthe evening. and on the following morning he opened his shop, and satdown to sew. but every time that he sewed a stitch, he looked towardsthe window. and in this state he continued, sewing nothing sufficient toearn a piece of silver.On the third day he seated himself again in his place, looking towardsthe woman. and she saw him, and, perceiving that he had become enslavedby her love, laughed in his face, and he, in like manner, laughed in herface. She then disappeared from before him, and sent to him herslave girl, with a wrapper containing a piece of red flowered silk. andthe girl, coming to him, said to him, My mistress saluteth thee, anddesireth thee to cut out for her, with the hand of skill, a shirt ofthis piece, and to sew it beautifully. So he answered, I hear andobey: and he cut out for her the shirt, and finished the sewing of iton that day. and on the following day the slave girl came to him again.and said to him, My mistress saluteth thee, and saith to thee, How didstthou pass last night? for she tasted not sleep, from her passion forthee. She then placed before him a piece of yellow satin, and said tohim, My mistress desireth thee to cut out for her, of this piece, twopairs of trousers, and to make them this day. He replied, I hear andobey. Salute her with abundant salutations, and say to her, Thy slave issubmissive to thine order, and command him to do whatsoever thouwilt. He then busied himself with the cutting out, and used alldiligence in sewing the two pairs of trousers. and presently the womanlooked out at him from the window, and saluted him by a sign, nowcasting down her eyes, and now smiling in his face, so that he imaginedhe should soon obtain possession of her. After this, she disappearedfrom before him, and the slave girl came to him. so he delivered to herthe two pairs of trousers, and she took them and departed: and when thenight came, he threw himself upon his bed, and remained turning himselfover in restlessness until the morning.On the following day, the master of the house came to my brother,bringing some linen, and said to him, Cut out and make this into shirtsfor me. He replied, I hear and obey: and ceased not from his work untilhe had cut out twenty shirts by the time of nightfall, without havingtasted food. The man then said to him, How much is thy hire forthis? but my brother answered not. and the damsel made a sign to himthat he should receive nothing, though he was absolutely in want of asingle copper coin. For three days he continued scarcely eating ordrinking anything, in his diligence to accomplish his work, and when hehad finished it, he went to deliver the shirts.Now the young woman had acquainted her husband with the state of mybrother's mind, but my brother knew not this. and she planned with herhusband to employ him in sewing without remuneration, and moreover toamuse themselves by laughing at him: so, when he had finished all thework that they gave him, they contrived a plot against him, and marriedhim to their slave girl. and on the night when he desired to introducehimself to her, they said to him, Pass this night in the mill, andto morrow thou shalt enjoy happiness. My brother, therefore, thinkingthat their intention was good, passed the night in the mill alone.Meanwhile, the husband of the young woman went to the miller, andinstigated him by signs to make my brother turn the mill. The miller,accordingly, went in to him at midnight, and began to exclaim, Verilythis bull is lazy, while there is a great quantity of wheat, and theowners of the flour are demanding it: I will therefore yoke him in themill, that he may finish the grinding of the flour: and so saying, heyoked my brother, and thus he kept him until near morning, when theowner of the house came, and saw him yoked in the mill, and the millerflogging him with the whip. and he left him, and retired. After this,the slave girl to whom he had been contracted in marriage came to himearly in the morning, and, having unbound him from the mill, said tohim, Both I and my mistress have been distressed by this which hathbefallen thee, and we have participated in the burden of thy sorrow. Buthe had no tongue wherewith to answer her, by reason of the severity ofthe flogging. He then returned to his house. and lo, the sheykh who hadperformed the marriage contract came and saluted him, saying, May Godprolong thy life! May thy marriage be blessed! May God not preserve theliar! returned my brother: thou thousandfold villain! By Allah, I wentonly to turn the mill in the place of the bull until the morning. Tellme thy story, said the sheykh: and my brother told him what hadhappened to him: upon which the sheykh said, Thy star agreeth not withhers: but if thou desire that I should change for thee the mode of thecontract, I will change it for another better than it, that thy star mayagree with hers. See then, replied my brother, if thou hastany other contrivance to employ.My brother then left him, and repaired again to his shop, hoping thatsomebody might give him some work, with the profit of which he mightobtain his food. and lo, the slave girl came to him. She had conspiredwith her mistress to play him this trick, and said to him, Verily, mymistress is longing for thee, and she hath gone up to look at thy facefrom the window. And my brother had scarcely heard these words when shelooked out at him from the window, and, weeping, said, Wherefore hastthou cut short the intercourse between us and thee? But he returned herno answer: so she swore to him that all that had happened to him in themill was not with her consent. and when my brother beheld her beauty andloveliness, the troubles that had befallen him became effaced from hismemory, and he accepted her excuse, and rejoiced at the sight of her. Hesaluted her, therefore, and conversed with her, and then sat a while athis work. after which the slave girl came to him, and said, My mistresssaluteth thee, and informeth thee that her husband hath determined topass this next night in the house of one of his intimate friends.wherefore, when he hath gone thither, do thou come to her. Now thehusband of the young woman had said to her, How shall we contrive whenhe cometh to thee that I may take him and drag him before the Walee? Shereplied, Let me then play him a trick, and involve him in a disgrace forwhich he shall be paraded throughout this city as an example toothers: and my brother knew nothing of the craftiness of women.Accordingly, at the approach of evening, the slave girl came to him,and, taking him by the hand, returned with him to her mistress, who saidto him, Verily, O my master, I have been longing for thee. Hasten then,said he, to give me a kiss, first of all. And his words were notfinished, when the young woman's husband came in from his neighbour'shouse, and, seizing my brother, exclaimed to him, By Allah, I will notloose thee but in the presence of the chief magistrate of the police. Mybrother humbled himself before him. but, without listening to him, hetook him to the house of the Walee, who flogged him with whips, andmounted him upon a camel, and conveyed him through the streets of thecity, the people crying out, This is the recompense of him who breakethinto the areems of others! and he fell from the camel, and his legbroke: so he became lame. The Walee then banished him from the city. andhe went forth, not knowing whither to turn his steps: but I, thoughenraged, overtook him, and brought him back. and I have taken uponmyself to provide him with meat and drink unto the present day.The Khaleefeh laughed at my story, and exclaimed, Thou hast spokenwell: but I replied, I will not accept this honour until thou hastlistened to me while I relate to thee what happened to the rest of mybrothers. and think me not a man of many words. Tell me, said theKhaleefeh, what happened to all thy brothers, and grace my ears withthese nice particulars: I beg thee to employ exuberance of diction inthy relation of these pleasant tales.