A long, long while ago, before ever the White Men were seen in Senna,there lived a man called Gopani Kufa.One day, as he was out hunting, he came upon a strange sight. Anenormous python had caught an antelope and coiled itself around it. theantelope, striking out in despair with its horns, had pinned thepython's neck to a tree, and so deeply had its horns sunk in the softwood that neither creature could get away.'Help!' cried the antelope, 'for I was doing no harm, yet I have beencaught, and would have been eaten, had I not defended myself.''Help me,' said the python, 'for I am Insato, King of all the Reptiles,and will reward you well!'Gopani Kufa considered for a moment, then stabbing the antelope withhis assegai, he set the python free.'I thank you,' said the python. 'come back here with the new moon, whenI shall have eaten the antelope, and I will reward you as I promised.''Yes,' said the dying antelope, 'he will reward you, and lo! yourreward shall be your own undoing!'Gopani Kufa went back to his kraal, and with the new moon he returnedagain to the spot where he had saved the python.Insato was lying upon the ground, still sleepy from the effects of hishuge meal, and when he saw the man he thanked him again, and said:'Come with me now to Pita, which is my own country, and I will give youwhat you will of all my possessions.'Gopani Kufa at first was afraid, thinking of what the antelope hadsaid, but finally he consented and followed Insato into the forest.For several days they travelled, and at last they came to a holeleading deep into the earth. It was not very wide, but large enough toadmit a man. 'Hold on to my tail,' said Insato, 'and I will go downfirst, drawing you after me.' The man did so, and Insato entered.Down, down, down they went for days, all the while getting deeper anddeeper into the earth, until at last the darkness ended and theydropped into a beautiful country. around them grew short green grass,on which browsed herds of cattle and sheep and goats. In the distanceGopani Kufa saw a great collection of houses all square, built of stoneand very tall, and their roofs were shining with gold and burnishediron.Gopani Kufa turned to Insato, but found, in the place of the python, aman, strong and handsome, with the great snake's skin wrapped round himfor covering. and on his arms and neck were rings of pure gold.The man smiled. 'I am Insato,' said he, 'but in my own country I takeman's shape even as you see me for this is Pita, the land over whichI am king.' He then took Gopani Kufa by the hand and led him towardsthe town.On the way they passed rivers in which men and women were bathing andfishing and boating. and farther on they came to gardens covered withheavy crops of rice and maize, and many other grains which Gopani Kufadid not even know the name of. And as they passed, the people who weresinging at their work in the fields, abandoned their labours andsaluted Insato with delight, bringing also palm wine and greencocoanuts for refreshment, as to one returned from a long journey.'These are my children!' said Insato, waving his hand towards thepeople. Gopani Kufa was much astonished at all that he saw, but hesaid nothing. Presently they came to the town. everything here, too,was beautiful, and everything that a man might desire he could obtain.Even the grains of dust in the streets were of gold and silver.Insato conducted Gopani Kufa to the palace, and showing him his rooms,and the maidens who would wait upon him, told him that they would havea great feast that night, and on the morrow he might name his choice ofthe riches of Pita and it should be given him. Then he was away.Now Gopani Kufa had a wasp called Zengi mizi. Zengi mizi was not anordinary wasp, for the spirit of the father of Gopani Kufa had enteredit, so that it was exceedingly wise. In times of doubt Gopani Kufaalways consulted the wasp as to what had better be done, so on thisoccasion he took it out of the little rush basket in which he carriedit, saying: 'Zengi mizi, what gift shall I ask of Insato to morrow whenhe would know the reward he shall bestow on me for saving his life?''Biz z z,' hummed Zengi mizi, 'ask him for Sipao the Mirror.' And itflew back into its basket.Gopani Kufa was astonished at this answer. but knowing that the wordsof Zengi mizi were true words, he determined to make the request. Sothat night they feasted, and on the morrow Insato came to Gopani Kufaand, giving him greeting joyfully, he said:'Now, O my friend, name your choice amongst my possessions and youshall have it!''O king!' answered Gopani Kufa, 'out of all your possessions I willhave the Mirror, Sipao.'The king started. 'O friend, Gopani Kufa,' he said, 'ask anything butthat! I did not think that you would request that which is mostprecious to me.''Let me think over it again then, O king,' said Gopani Kufa, 'andto morrow I will let you know if I change my mind.'But the king was still much troubled, fearing the loss of Sipao, forthe mirror had magic powers, so that he who owned it had but to ask andhis wish would be fulfilled. to it Insato owed all that he possessed.As soon as the king left him, Gopani Kufa again took Zengi mizi, out ofhis basket. 'Zengi mizi,' he said, 'the king seems loth to grant myrequest for the Mirror is there not some other thing of equal valuefor which I might ask?'And the wasp answered: 'There is nothing in the world, O Gopani Kufa,which is of such value as this Mirror, for it is a Wishing Mirror, andaccomplishes the desires of him who owns it. If the king hesitates, goto him the next day, and the day after, and in the end he will bestowthe Mirror upon you, for you saved his life.'And it was even so. For three days Gopani  Kufa returned the sameanswer to the king, and, at last, with tears in his eyes, Insato gavehim the Mirror, which was of polished iron, saying: 'Take Sipao, then,O Gopani  Kufa, and may thy wishes come true. Go back now to thine owncountry. Sipao will show you the way.'Gopani Kufa was greatly rejoiced, and, taking farewell of the king,said to the Mirror:'Sipao, Sipao, I wish to be back upon the Earth again!'Instantly he found himself standing upon the upper earth. but, notknowing the spot, he said again to the Mirror:'Sipao, Sipao, I want the path to my own kraal!'And behold! right before him lay the path!When he arrived home he found his wife and daughter mourning for him,for they thought that he had been eaten by lions. but he comfortedthem, saying that while following a wounded antelope he had missed hisway and had wandered for a long time before he had found the path again.That night he asked Zengi mizi, in whom sat the spirit of his father,what he had better ask Sipao for next?'Biz z z,' said the wasp, 'would you not like to be as great a chief asInsato?'And Gopani Kufa smiled, and took the Mirror and said to it:'Sipao, Sipao, I want a town as great as that of Insato, the King ofPita. and I wish to be chief over it!'Then all along the banks of the Zambesi river, which flowed near by,sprang up streets of stone buildings, and their roofs shone with goldand burnished iron like those in Pita. and in the streets men and womenwere walking, and young boys were driving out the sheep and cattle topasture. and from the river came shouts and laughter from the young menand maidens who had launched their canoes and were fishing. And whenthe people of the new town beheld Gopani Kufa they rejoiced greatly andhailed him as chief.Gopani Kufa was now as powerful as Insato the King of the Reptiles hadbeen, and he and his family moved into the palace that stood high abovethe other buildings right in the middle of the town. His wife was tooastonished at all these wonders to ask any questions, but his daughterShasasa kept begging him to tell her how he had suddenly become sogreat. so at last he revealed the whole secret, and even entrustedSipao the Mirror to her care, saying:'It will be safer with you, my daughter, for you dwell apart. whereasmen come to consult me on affairs of state, and the Mirror might bestolen.'Then Shasasa took the Magic Mirror and hid it beneath her pillow, andafter that for many years Gopani Kufa ruled his people both well andwisely, so that all men loved him, and never once did he need to askSipao to grant him a wish.Now it happened that, after many years, when the hair of Gopani Kufawas turning grey with age, there came white men to that country. Upthe Zambesi they came, and they fought long and fiercely withGopani Kufa. but, because of the power of the Magic Mirror, he beatthem, and they fled to the sea coast. Chief among them was one Rei, aman of much cunning, who sought to discover whence sprang Gopani Kufa'spower. So one day he called to him a trusty servant named Butou, andsaid: 'Go you to the town and find out for me what is the secret of itsgreatness.'And Butou, dressing himself in rags, set out, and when he came toGopani Kufa's town he asked for the chief. and the people took him intothe presence of Gopani Kufa. When the white man saw him he humbledhimself, and said: 'O Chief! take pity on me, for I have no home! WhenRei marched against you I alone stood apart, for I knew that all thestrength of the Zambesi lay in your hands, and because I would notfight against you he turned me forth into the forest to starve!'And Gopani Kufa believed the white man's story, and he took him in andfeasted him, and gave him a house.In this way the end came. For the heart of Shasasa, the daughter ofGopani Kufa, went forth to Butou the traitor, and from her he learntthe secret of the Magic Mirror. One night, when all the town slept, hefelt beneath her pillow and, finding the Mirror, he stole it and fledback with it to Rei, the chief of the white men.So it befell that, one day, as Gopani Kufa was gazing up at the riverfrom a window of the palace he again saw the war canoes of the whitemen. and at the sight his spirit misgave him.'Shasasa! my daughter!' he cried wildly, 'go fetch me the mirror, forthe white men are at hand.''Woe is me, my father!' she sobbed. 'The Mirror is gone! For I lovedButou the traitor, and he has stolen Sipao from me!'Then Gopani Kufa calmed himself, and drew out Zengi mizi from its rushbasket.'O spirit of my father!' he said, 'what now shall I do?''O Gopani Kufa!' hummed the wasp, 'there is nothing now that can bedone, for the words of the antelope which you slew are being fulfilled.''Alas! I am an old man I had forgotten!' cried the chief. 'The wordsof the antelope were true words my reward shall be my undoing theyare being fulfilled!'Then the white men fell upon the people of Gopani Kufa and slew themtogether with the chief and his daughter Shasasa. and since then allthe power of the Earth has rested in the hands of the white men, forthey have in their possession Sipao, the Magic Mirror.Story of the King Who Would See ParadiseOnce upon a time there was king who, one day out hunting, came upon afakeer in a lonely place in the mountains. The fakeer was seated on alittle old bedstead reading the Koran, with his patched cloak thrownover his shoulders.The king asked him what he was reading. and he said he was readingabout Paradise, and praying that he might be worthy to enter there.Then they began to talk, and, by and  bye, the king asked the fakeer ifhe could show him a glimpse of Paradise, for he found it very difficultto believe in what he could not see. The fakeer replied that he wasasking a very difficult, and perhaps a very dangerous, thing. but thathe would pray for him, and perhaps he might be able to do it. only hewarned the king both against the dangers of his unbelief, and againstthe curiosity which prompted him to ask this thing. However, the kingwas not to be turned from his purpose, and he promised the fakeeralways to provided him with food, if he, in return, would pray for him.To this the fakeer agreed, and so they parted.Time went on, and the king always sent the old fakeer his foodaccording to his promise. but, whenever he sent to ask him when he wasgoing to show him Paradise, the fakeer always replied: 'Not yet, notyet!'After a year or two had passed by, the king heard one day that thefakeer was very ill  indeed, he was believed to be dying. Instantlyhe hurried off himself, and found that it was really true, and that thefakeer was even then breathing his last. There and then the kingbesought him to remember his promise, and to show him a glimpse ofParadise. The dying fakeer replied that if the king would come to hisfuneral, and, when the grave was filled in, and everyone else was goneaway, he would come and lay his hand upon the grave, he would keep hisword, and show him a glimpse of Paradise. At the same time he imploredthe king not to do this thing, but to be content to see Paradise whenGod called him there. Still the king's curiosity was so aroused thathe would not give way.Accordingly, after the fakeer was dead, and had been buried, he stayedbehind when all the rest went away. and then, when he was quite alone,he stepped forward, and laid his hand upon the grave! Instantly theground opened, and the astonished king, peeping in, saw a flight ofrough steps, and, at the bottom of them, the fakeer sitting, just as heused to sit, on his rickety bedstead, reading the Koran!At first the king was so surprised and frightened that he could onlystare. but the fakeer beckoned to him to come down, so, mustering uphis courage, he boldly stepped down into the grave.The fakeer rose, and, making a sign to the king to follow, walked a fewpaces along a dark passage. Then he stopped, turned solemnly to hiscompanion, and, with a movement of his hand, drew aside as it were aheavy curtain, and revealed what? No one knows what was there shownto the king, nor did he ever tell anyone. but, when the fakeer atlength dropped the curtain, and the king turned to leave the place, hehad had his glimpse of Paradise! Trembling in every limb, he staggeredback along the passage, and stumbled up the steps out of the tomb intothe fresh air again.The dawn was breaking. It seemed odd to the king that he had been solong in the grave. It appeared but a few minutes ago that he haddescended, passed along a few steps to the place where he had peepedbeyond the veil, and returned again after perhaps five minutes of thatwonderful view! And what WAS it he had seen? He racked his brains toremember, but he could not call to mind a single thing! How curiouseverything looked too! Why, his own city, which by now he wasentering, seemed changed and strange to him! The sun was already upwhen he turned into the palace gate and entered the public durbar hall.It was full. and there upon the throne sat another king! The poorking, all bewildered, sat down and stared about him. Presently achamberlain came across and asked him why he sat unbidden in the king'spresence. 'But I am the king!' he cried.'What king?' said the chamberlain.'The true king of this country,' said he indignantly.Then the chamberlain went away, and spoke to the king who sat on thethrone, and the old king heard words like 'mad,' 'age,' 'compassion.'Then the king on the throne called him to come forward, and, as hewent, he caught sight of himself reflected in the polished steel shieldof the bodyguard, and started back in horror! He was old, decrepit,dirty, and ragged! His long white beard and locks were unkempt, andstraggled all over his chest and shoulders. Only one sign of royaltyremained to him, and that was the signet ring upon his right hand. Hedragged it off with shaking fingers and held it up to the king.'Tell me who I am,' he cried. 'there is my signet, who once sat whereyou sit even yesterday!'The king looked at him compassionately, and examined the signet withcuriosity. Then he commanded, and they brought out dusty records andarchives of the kingdom, and old coins of previous reigns, and comparedthem faithfully. At last the king turned to the old man, and said:'Old man, such a king as this whose signet thou hast, reigned sevenhundred years ago. but he is said to have disappeared, none knowwhither. where got you the ring?'Then the old man smote his breast, and cried out with a loudlamentation. for he understood that he, who was not content to waitpatiently to see the Paradise of the faithful, had been judged already.And he turned and left the hall without a word, and went into thejungle, where he lived for twenty five years a life of prayer andmeditations, until at last the Angel of Death came to him, andmercifully released him, purged and purified through his punishment.