Once upon a time there was a cobbler's apprentice who ran away from his master, wanting to go out into the wide world. He came to an old abandoned mineshaft. A witch was standing before it, and she asked if she might lower him into the shaft in a basket, so he could bring back something that was on a table down below.Thus she lowered the apprentice into the shaft in a basket. Inside the shaft were a copper passageway, a silver passageway, and a connecting tunnel. A table stood in the connecting tunnel, and seated on the table was a fellow with claws on his fingers and on his feet. In front of him there was a tinderbox. The fellow gave the tinderbox to the cobbler's apprentice, as well as copper, silver, and gold.The apprentice then had the witch pull him back up. He gave the copper to the witch, but kept the silver, gold, and the tinderbox for himself. He went on his way, and with the gold and silver he was suddenly a wealthy man.Whenever he struck a light with the tinderbox two giants appeared before him and said, "What is my lord's command?"With time he came to the royal city, and one night he struck a light with the tinderbox.When the two giants appeared and asked, "What is my lord's command?" he answered, "I want you to bring me the princess in her bed."Not long afterward they brought the princess in her bed to the apprentice. From that time onward the same thing happened every night.When the king learned from the princess what was happening to her in the night, he commanded that a loosely bound bag of peas be fastened beneath her bed. By following the peas that fell out, one could discover where the princess was being taken each night.However, underway the giants noticed the bag of peas, and after they had brought the princess back to her room, they gathered up all the peas, so that no one could see where she had been. They did the same thing the next night when the king had a loosely bound bag of lentils fastened beneath her bed, and not a single lentil remained in the street.The next night when the giants brought the princess's bed to the apprentice, they said sadly, "My lord, your last hour has struck. The king had a cow's bladder filled with blood fastened under the princess's bed, and we giants are not able to wipe up the blood that dripped out of the cow's bladder. In the morning the king will learn where the princess has been during the night, and he will have you executed."Indeed, the next morning soldiers forced their way into the apprentice's room and took him prisoner. A golden scaffold was constructed on which he was to die. However, before he lay his head on the scaffold, he asked to be permitted to smoke one last pipeful of tobacco before his end. This wish was granted him, and he pulled the tinderbox from his pocket and struck a flame.The two giants appeared immediately, asking, "What is my lord's command?"He commanded them to capture the king and throw him into prison.And thus the cobbler's apprentice at once became king. He had the old king beheaded and married the princess.