A distinguished lady once had a little girl. It cannot even be said howvery, very much she loved her. Now the little girl went to school, and shewalked on some ice, slipped and fell, and broke off one of her littlelegs. They picked her up and carried her back to her mother and told herthat she had fallen on some ice and broken off one of her little legs. Themother cried many tears and then had the surgeon come and said to him, "Ifonly you could bring the little girl so far that she could walk on herlegs again."The surgeon looked at the little leg from this side and that side andthen said, "The girl must have a little golden leg."So the mother had a little golden leg made and placed on the girl, butit did not help.A little while later the door opened and Death entered. "Oh!" said thelady. "Are you going to take my dear, dear child away from me?""Yes," said Death, "her time and her hour have come. She must go withme.""Oh!" said the mother to her child. "Are you going to leave me?""Mother, dear," said the child, "I must! I would like to stay here, butDeath will not allow it."Then Death took the little girl by the hand and went out the door withher.When the child was buried the gravedigger broke open the casket andtook the little golden leg off the little girl and went home with it. Atthe hour of midnight, the child came to the gravedigger's bed and said,"Give my little leg! Give me my little leg!"But the gravedigger pretended that he did not hear her. So the childcame the first night, and she came the second night, and she also came thethird night, and said, "Give me my little leg! Give me my little leg!"The third night the gravedigger said, "I do not have your littleleg."But the child did not allow herself to be made a fool of, and she saidtwo times and three times, "Give me my little leg! Give me my little leg!There   you   have   my   little leg! "This last sentence is to be suddenly shouted tothe child who is anxiously listening. The child will jump with fear, thenrecover, and then laugh about being frightened. He will seldom ask aboutthe conclusion, but if he does, the story ends thus:From that hour on, the girl rested peacefully in her grave.