At the edge of a wood there lived an old man who had only one son, andone day he called the boy to him and said he wanted some corn ground,but the youth must be sure never to enter any mill where the miller wasbeardless.The boy took the corn and set out, and before he had gone very far hesaw a large mill in front of him, with a beardless man standing in thedoorway.'Good greeting, beardless one!' cried he.'Good greeting, sonny,' replied the man.'Could I grind something here?''Yes, certainly! I will finish what I am doing and then you can grind aslong as you like.'But suddenly the boy remembered what his father had told him, and badefarewell to the man, and went further down the river, till he cameto another mill, not knowing that as soon as his back was turned thebeardless man had picked up a bag of corn and run hastily to the samemill before him. When the boy reached the second mill, and saw a secondbeardless man sitting there, he did not stop, and walked on till hecame to a third mill. But this time also the beardless man had been tooclever for him, and had arrived first by another road. When it happeneda fourth time the boy grew cross, and said to himself, 'It is no goodgoing on. there seems to be a beardless man in every mill'. and he tookhis sack from his back, and made up his mind to grind his corn where hewas.The beardless man finished grinding his own corn, and when he had donehe said to the boy, who was beginning to grind his, 'Suppose, sonny, wemake a cake of what you have there.'Now the boy had been rather uneasy when he recollected his father'swords, but he thought to himself, 'What is done cannot be undone,' andanswered, 'Very well, so let it be.'Then the beardless one got up, threw the flour into the tub, and made ahole in the middle, telling the boy to fetch some water from the riverin his two hands, to mix the cake. When the cake was ready for bakingthey put it on the fire, and covered it with hot ashes, till it wascooked through. Then they leaned it up against the wall, for it was toobig to go into a cupboard, and the beardless one said to the boy:'Look here, sonny: if we share this cake we shall neither of us haveenough. Let us see who can tell the biggest lie, and the one who liesthe best shall have the whole cake.'The boy, not knowing what else to do, answered, 'All right. you begin.'So the beardless one began to lie with all his might, and when he wastired of inventing new lies the boy said to him, 'My good fellow, ifTHAT is all you can do it is not much! Listen to me, and I will tell youa true story.'In my youth, when I was an old man, we had a quantity of beehives.Every morning when I got up I counted them over, and it was quite easyto number the bees, but I never could reckon the hives properly. Oneday, as I was counting the bees, I discovered that my best bee wasmissing, and without losing a moment I saddled a cock and went out tolook for him. I traced him as far as the shore, and knew that he hadcrossed the sea, and that I must follow. When I had reached the otherside I found a man had harnessed my bee to a plough, and with his helpwas sowing millet seed.'"That is my bee!" I shouted. "Where did you get him from?"'"Brother," replied the man, "if he is yours, take him." And he not onlygave me back my bee, but a sack of millet seed into the bargain, becausehe had made use of my bee. Then I put the bag on my shoulders, tookthe saddle from the cock, and placed it on the back of the bee, which Imounted, leading the cock by a string, so that he should have a rest. Aswe were flying home over the sea one of the strings that held the bagof millet broke in two, and the sack dropped straight into the ocean. Itwas quite lost, of course, and there was no use thinking about it, andby the time we were safe back again night had come. I then got down frommy bee, and let him loose, that he might get his supper, gave the cocksome hay, and went to sleep myself. But when I awoke with the sun whata scene met my eyes! During the night wolves had come and had eaten mybee. And honey lay ankle deep in the valley and knee deep on the hills.Then I began to consider how I could best collect some, to take homewith me.'Now it happened that I had with me a small hatchet, and this I took tothe wood, hoping to meet some animal which I could kill, whose skinI might turn into a bag. As I entered the forest I saw two roe deerhopping on one foot, so I slew them with a single blow, and made threebags from their skins, all of which I filled with honey and placed onthe back of the cock. At length I reached home, where I was told that myfather had just been born, and that I must go at once to fetch some holywater to sprinkle him with. As I went I turned over in my mind if therewas no way for me to get back my millet seed, which had dropped into thesea, and when I arrived at the place with the holy water I saw the seedhad fallen on fruitful soil, and was growing before my eyes. And morethan that, it was even cut by an invisible hand, and made into a cake.'So I took the cake as well as the holy water, and was flying backwith them over the sea, when there fell a great rain, and the sea wasswollen, and swept away my millet cake. Ah, how vexed I was at its losswhen I was safe on earth again.'Suddenly I remembered that my hair was very long. If I stood it touchedthe ground, although if I was sitting it only reached my ears. I seizeda knife and cut off a large lock, which I plaited together, and whennight came tied it into a knot, and prepared to use it for a pillow. Butwhat was I to do for a fire? A tinder box I had, but no wood. Then itoccurred to me that I had stuck a needle in my clothes, so I took theneedle and split it in pieces, and lit it, then laid myself down bythe fire and went to sleep. But ill luck still pursued me. While I wassleeping a spark from the fire lighted on the hair, which was burnt upin a moment. In despair I threw myself on the ground, and instantlysank in it as far as my waist. I struggled to get out, but only fell infurther. so I ran to the house, seized a spade, dug myself out, and tookhome the holy water. On the way I noticed that the ripe fields were fullof reapers, and suddenly the air became so frightfully hot that the mendropped down in a faint. Then I called to them, "Why don't you bring outour mare, which is as tall as two days, and as broad as half a day, andmake a shade for yourselves?" My father heard what I said and jumpedquickly on the mare, and the reapers worked with a will in the shadow,while I snatched up a wooden pail to bring them some water to drink.When I got to the well everything was frozen hard, so in order to drawsome water I had to take off my head and break the ice with it. As Idrew near them, carrying the water, the reapers all cried out, "Why,what has become of your head?" I put up my hand and discovered that Ireally had no head, and that I must have left it in the well. I ran backto look for it, but found that meanwhile a fox which was passing by hadpulled my head out of the water, and was tearing at my brains. I stolecautiously up to him, and gave him such a kick that he uttered a loudscream, and let fall a parchment on which was written, "The cake ismine, and the beardless one goes empty handed."'With these words the boy rose, took the cake, and went home, while thebeardless one remained behind to swallow his disappointment.(Volksmarchen der Serben.)