Once on a time, when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares, theBodhisatta was born in a village as a potter's son. He plied the potter'strade, and had a wife and family to support.At that time there lay a great natural lake close by the great river ofBenares. When there was much water, river and lake were one. but when thewater was low, they were apart. Now fish and tortoises know by instinctwhen the year will be rainy and when there will be a drought.So at the time of our story the fish and tortoises which lived in thatlake knew there would be a drought. and when the two were one water, theyswam out of the lake into the river. But there was one tortoise that wouldnot go into the river, because, said he, "here I was born, and here I havegrown up, and here is my parents' home. Leave it I cannot!"Then in the hot season the water all dried up. He dug a hole and buriedhimself, just in the place where the Bodhisatta was used to come for clay.There the Bodhisatta came to get some clay. With a big spade he dug down,until he cracked the tortoise's shell, turning him out on the ground asthough he were a large piece of clay. In his agony the creature thought,"Here I am, dying, all because I was too fond of my home to leave it!" Andin the words of these following verses, he made his moan:Here was I born, and here I lived. my refuge was the clay.And now the clay has played me false in a most grievous way.Thee, thee I call, oh Bhaggava. hear what I have to say!Go where thou canst find happiness, where'er the place maybe.Forest or village, there the wise both home and birthplace see.Go where there's life. nor stay at home for death to master thee.So he went on and on, talking to the Bodhisatta, until he died. TheBodhisatta picked him up, and collecting all the villagers addressed themthus: "Look at this tortoise. When the other fish and tortoises went intothe great river, he was too fond of home to go with them, and buriedhimself in the place where I get my clay. Then as I was digging for clay,I broke his shell with my big spade, and turned him out on the ground inthe belief that he was a large lump of clay. Then he called to mind whathe had done, lamented his fate in two verses of poetry, and expired.So you see he came to his end because he was too fond of his home. Takecare not to be like this tortoise. Don't say to yourselves, 'I have sight,I have hearing, I have smell, I have taste, I have touch, I have a son, Ihave a daughter, I have numbers of men and maids for my service, I haveprecious gold.' Do not cleave to these things with craving and desire.Each being passes through three stages of existence."Thus did he exhort the crowd with all a Buddha's skill. The discoursewas bruited abroad all over India, and for full seven thousand years itwas remembered. All the crowd abode by his exhortation, and gave alms, anddid good until at last they went to swell the hosts of heaven.