Once upon a time there was an old couple. The husband lost his wife andmarried again. But he had a daughter by the first marriage, a young girl,and she found no favor in the eyes of her evil stepmother, who used tobeat her, and consider how she could get her killed outright. One day thefather went away somewhere or other, so the stepmother said to the girl,"Go to your aunt, my sister, and ask her for a needle and thread to makeyou a shift."Now that aunt was a Baba Yaga. Well, the girl was no fool, so she wentto a real aunt of hers first, and says she, "Good morning, auntie!""Good morning, my dear! What have you come for?""Mother has sent me to her sister, to ask for a needle and thread tomake me a shift."Then her aunt instructed her what to do. "There is a birch tree there,niece, which would hit you in the eye   you must tie a ribbon round it.there are doors which would creak and bang   you must pour oil on theirhinges. there are dogs which would tear you in pieces   you must throwthem these rolls. there is a cat which would scratch your eyes out   youmust give it a piece of bacon."So the girl went away, and walked and walked, till she came to theplace. There stood a hut, and in it sat weaving the Baba Yaga, thebony shanks."Good morning, auntie," says the girl."Good morning, my dear," replies the Baba Yaga." Mother has sent me to ask you for a needle and thread to make me ashift.""Very well. sit down and weave a little in the meantime."So the girl sat down behind the loom, and the Baba Yaga went outside,and said to her servant maid, "Go and heat the bath, and get my niecewashed. and mind you look sharp after her. I want to breakfast off her."Well, the girl sat there in such a fright that she was as much dead asalive. Presently she spoke imploringly to the servant maid, saying,"Kinswoman dear, do please wet the firewood instead of making it burn. andfetch the water for the bath in a sieve." And she made her a present of ahandkerchief.The Baba Yaga waited awhile. then she came to the window and asked,"Are you weaving, niece? Are you weaving, my dear?""Oh yes, dear aunt, I'm weaving."So the Baba Yaga went away again, and the girl gave the cat a piece ofbacon, and asked, "Is there no way of escaping from here?""Here's a comb for you and a towel," said the cat. "take them, and beoff. The Baba Yaga will pursue you, but you must lay your ear on theground, and when you hear that she is close at hand, first of all, throwdown the towel. It will become a wide, wide river. And if the Baba Yagagets across the river, and tries to catch you, then you must lay your earon the ground again, and when you hear that she is close at hand, throwdown the comb. It will become a dense, dense forest. through that shewon't be able to force her way anyhow."The girl took the towel and the comb and fled. The dogs would have renther, but she threw them the rolls, and they let her go by. the doors wouldhave begun to bang, but she poured oil on their hinges, and they let herpass through. the birch tree would have poked her eyes out, but she tiedthe ribbon around it, and it let her pass on. And the cat sat down to theloom, and worked away. muddled everything about, if it didn't do muchweaving.Up came the Baba Yaga to the window, and asked, "Are you weaving,niece? Are you weaving, my dear?""I'm weaving, dear aunt, I'm weaving," gruffly replied the cat.The Baba Yaga rushed into the hut, saw that the girl was gone, and tookto beating the cat, and abusing it for not having scratched the girl'seyes out. "Long as I've served you," said the cat, "you've never given meso much as a bone. but she gave me bacon." Then the Baba Yaga pounced uponthe dogs, on the doors, on the birch tree, and on the servant maid, andset to work to abuse them all, and to knock them about.Then the dogs said to her, "Long as we've served you, you've never somuch as pitched us a burnt crust. but she gave us rolls to eat."And the doors said, "Long as we've served you, you've never poured evena drop of water on our hinges. but she poured oil on us."The birch tree said, "Long as I've served you, you've never tied asingle thread around me. but she fastened a ribbon around me."And the servant maid said, "Long as I've served you, you've never givenme so much as a rag. but she gave me a handkerchief."The Baba Yaga, bony of limb, quickly jumped into her mortar, sent itflying along with the pestle, sweeping away the while all traces of itsflight with a broom, and set off in pursuit of the girl. Then the girl puther ear to the ground, and when she heard that the Baba Yaga was chasingher, and was now close at hand, she flung down the towel. And it became awide, such a wide river! Up came the Baba Yaga to the river, and gnashedher teeth with spite. then she went home for her oxen, and drove them tothe river. The oxen drank up every drop of the river, and then the BabaYaga began the pursuit anew. But the girl put her ear to the ground again,and when she heard that the Baba Yaga was near, she flung down the comb,and instantly a forest sprang up, such an awfully thick one! The Baba Yagabegan gnawing away at it, but however hard she worked, she couldn't gnawher way through it, so she had to go back again.But by this time the girl's father had returned home, and he asked,"Where's my daughter?""She's gone to her aunt's," replied her stepmother.Soon afterwards the girl herself came running home." Where have you been?" asked her father."Ah, father!" she said, "mother sent me to aunt's to ask for a needleand thread to make me a shift. But aunt's a Baba Yaga, and she wanted toeat me!""And how did you get away, daughter?""Why like this," said the girl, and explained the whole matter. As soonas her father had heard all about it, he became wroth with his wife, andshot her. But he and his daughter lived on and flourished, and everythingwent well with them.