There was once an old man who had a wife with a very bad temper. She hadnever borne him any children, and would not take the trouble to adopt ason. So for a little pet he kept a tiny sparrow, and fed it with greatcare. The old dame, not satisfied with scolding her husband, hated thesparrow.Now the old woman's temper was especially bad on wash days, when her oldback and knees were well strained over the low tub, which rested on theground. It happened once that she had made some starch, and set it in ared wooden bowl to cool. While her back was turned, the sparrow hoppeddown on the edge of the bowl, and pecked at some of the starch. In a ragethe old hag seized a pair of scissors and cut the sparrow's tongue out.Flinging the bird in the air she cried out, "Now be off." So the poorsparrow, all bleeding, flew away.When the old man came back and found his pet gone, he made a great ado. Heasked his wife, and she told him what she had done and why. The sorrowfulold man grieved sorely for his pet, and after looking in every place andcalling it by name, gave it up as lost.Long after this, old man while wandering on the mountains met his oldfriend the sparrow. They both cried "Ohio!" (good morning) to each other,and bowing low offered many mutual congratulations and inquiries as tohealth, etc. Then the sparrow begged the old man to visit his humbleabode, promising to introduce his wife and two daughters.The old man went in and found a nice little house with a bamboo garden,tiny waterfall, stepping stone, and everything complete. Then Mrs. Sparrowbrought in slices of sugar jelly, rock candy, sweet potato custard, and abowl of hot starch sprinkled with sugar, and a pair of chopsticks on atray. Miss Suzumi, the elder daughter brought the tea caddy and teapot,and in a snap of the fingers had a good cup of tea ready, which sheoffered on a tray, kneeling."Please take up and help yourself. The refreshments are very poor, but Ihope you will excuse our plainness," said Mother Sparrow. The delightedold man, wondering in himself at such a polite family of sparrows, ateheartily, and drank several cups of tea. Finally, on being pressed heremained all night.For several days the old man enjoyed himself at the sparrow's home. Helooked at the landscapes and the moonlight, feasted to his heart'scontent, and played go (the game of 360 checkers) with Ko Suzumithe little daughter. In the evening Mrs. Sparrow would bring out therefreshments and the wine, and seat the old man on a silken cushion, whileshe played the guitar. Mr. Sparrow and his two daughters danced, sung, andmade merry. The delighted old man leaning on the velvet armrest forgot hiscares, his old limbs, and his wife's tongue, and felt like a youth again.On the fifth day the old man said he must go home. Then the sparrowbrought out two baskets made of plaited rattan, such as are used intraveling and carried on men's shoulders. Placing them before their guest,the sparrow said, "Please accept a parting gift."Now one basket was very heavy, and the other very light. The old man, notbeing greedy, said he would take the lighter one. So with many thanks andbows and good byes, he set off homewards.He reached his hut safely, but instead of a kind welcome the old hag beganto scold him for being away so long. He begged her to be quiet, andtelling of his visit to the sparrows, opened the basket, while thescowling old woman held her tongue, out of sheer curiosity.Oh, what a splendid sight! There were gold and silver coin, and gems, andcoral, and crystal, and amber, and the never failing bag of money, and theinvisible coat and hat, and rolls of books, and all manner of preciousthings.At the sight of so much wealth, the old hag's scowl changed to a smile ofgreedy joy. "I'll go right off and get a present from the sparrows," saidshe.So binding on her straw sandals, and tucking up her skirts, and adjustingher girdle, tying the bow in front, she seized her staff and set off onthe road. Arriving at the sparrow's house she began to flatter Mr. Sparrowby soft speeches. Of course the polite sparrow invited her into his house,but nothing but a cup of tea was offered her, and wife and daughters keptaway. Seeing she was not going to get any good bye gift, the brazen hussyasked for one. The sparrow then brought out and set before her twobaskets, one heavy and the other light. Taking the heavier one without somuch as saying "thank you," she carried it back with her. Then she openedit, expecting all kinds of riches.She took off the lid, when a horrible cuttlefish rushed at her, and ahorned oni snapped his tusks at her, a skeleton poked his bonyfingers in her face, and finally a long, hairy serpent, with a big headand lolling tongue, sprang out and coiled around her, cracking her bones,and squeezing out her breath, till she died.After the good old man had buried his wife, he adopted a son to comforthis old age, and with his treasures lived at ease all his days.