There was a certain merchant, of an excessively jealous disposition,having a wife endowed with perfect beauty, who had prevented him fromleaving his home. but an event happened which obliged him to make ajourney. and when he found his doing so to be indispensable, he went tothe market in which birds were sold, and bought a parrot, which heplaced in his house to act as a spy, that, on his return, she mightinform him of what passed during his absence. for this parrot wascunning and intelligent, and remembered whatever she heard. So,when he had made his journey, and accomplished his business, hereturned, and caused the parrot to be brought to him, and asked herrespecting the conduct of his wife. She answered, Thy wife has a lover,who visited her every night during thy absence: and when the man heardthis, he fell into a violent rage, and went to his wife, and gave her asevere beating.The woman imagined that one of the female slaves had informed him ofwhat had passed between her and her paramour during his absence: shetherefore called them together, and made them swear. and they all sworethat they had not told their master anything of the matter. butconfessed that they had heard the parrot relate to him what had passed.Having thus established, on the testimony of the slaves, the fact of theparrot's having informed her husband of her intrigue, she ordered one ofthese slaves to grind with a hand mill under the cage, another tosprinkle water from above, and a third to move a mirror from side toside, during the next night on which her husband was absent. and on thefollowing morning, when the man returned from an entertainment at whichhe had been present, and inquired again of the parrot what had passedthat night during his absence, the bird answered, O my master, I couldneither see nor hear anything, on account of the excessive darkness, andthunder, and lightning, and rain. Now this happened during summer: so hesaid to her, What strange words are these? It is now summer, whennothing of what thou hast described ever happens. The parrot, however,swore by Allah the Great that what she had said was true. and that ithad so happened: upon which the man, not understanding the case, norknowing the plot, became violently enraged, and took out the bird fromthe cage, and threw her down upon the ground with such violence that hekilled her.But after some days, one of his female slaves informed him of the truth.yet he would not believe it, until he saw his wife's paramour going outfrom his house. when he drew his sword, and slew the traitor bya blow on the back of his neck: so also did he to his treacherous wife.and thus both of them went, laden with the sin which they had committed,to the fire. and the merchant discovered that the parrot had informedhim truly of what she had seen. and he mourned grievously for her loss.When the Wezeer heard these words of King Yoonan, he said, O King ofgreat dignity, what hath this crafty sage this man from whom nought butmischief proceedeth done unto me, that I should be his enemy, and speakevil of him, and plot with thee to destroy him? I have informed theerespecting him in compassion for thee, and in fear of his despoilingthee of thy happiness. and if my words be not true, destroy me, as theWezeer of Es Sindibad was destroyed. The King asked, How was that? Andthe Wezeer thus answered: THE STORY OF THE ENVIOUS WEZEER AND THE PRINCE AND THE GHOOLEH.The King above mentioned had a son who was ardently fond of thechase. and he had a Wezeer whom he charged to be always with thisson wherever he went. One day the son went forth to hunt, and hisfather's Wezeer was with him. and as they rode together, they saw agreat wild beast. upon which the Wezeer exclaimed to the Prince, Awayafter this wild beast! The King's son pursued it until he was out of thesight of his attendants, and the beast also escaped from before his eyesin the desert. and while the Prince wandered in perplexity, not knowingwhither to direct his course, he met in his way a damsel, who wasweeping. He said to her, Who art thou? and she answered, I am adaughter of one of the kings of India. I was in the desert, and slumberovertook me, and I fell from my horse in a state of insensibility, andbeing thus separated from my attendants, I lost my way. The Prince, onhearing this, pitied her forlorn state, and placed her behind him on hishorse. and as they proceeded, they passed by a ruin, and thedamsel said to him, O my master, I would alight here for a little while.The Prince therefore lifted her from his horse at this ruin. but shedelayed so long to return, that he wondered wherefore she had loiteredso, and entering after her, without her knowledge, perceived that shewas a Ghooleh, and heard her say, My children, I have brought youto day a fat young man: on which they exclaimed, Bring him in to us, Omother! that we may fill our stomachs with his flesh. When the Princeheard their words, he felt assured of destruction. the muscles of hissides quivered, and fear overcame him, and he retreated. The Ghoolehthen came forth, and, seeing that he appeared alarmed and fearful, andthat he was trembling, said to him, Wherefore dost thou fear? Heanswered, I have an enemy of whom I am in fear. The Ghooleh said, Thouassertest thyself to be the son of the King. He replied, Yes. Then,said she, wherefore dost thou not give some money to thine enemy, and soconciliate him? He answered, He will not be appeased with money, norwith anything but life. and therefore do I fear him: I am an injuredman. She then said to him, If thou be an injured man, as thou affirmest,beg aid of God against thine oppressor, and He will avert from thee hismischievous design, and that of every other person whom thou fearest.Upon this, therefore, the Prince raised his head towards heaven, andsaid, O thou who answerest the distressed when he prayeth to Thee, anddispellest evil, assist me, and cause mine enemy to depart from me. forThou art able to do whatsoever Thou wilt! and the Ghooleh no soonerheard his prayer, than she departed from him. The Prince then returnedto his father, and informed him of the conduct of the Wezeer. upon whichthe King gave orders that the minister should be put to death.