I am reminded of that singular phenomenon which has been seen off the Cape, and usually termed the " Flying Dutchman," which few sailors who have navigated the Cape, disbelieve, and which most people are very sceptical respecting.The supposed origin of the "Flying Dutchman" is that a vessel from Batavia was on the point of entering Table Bay in stress of weather during the Dutch occupation os the Cape, when in the winter season, no vessel was allowed to enter the bay: the batteries fired on the distressed ship, and compelled it to put to sea, where it was lost, and as the sailors say has continued ever since beating about, and will continue to do so till the day of judgment.The " Dutchman " is said to appear generally to ships in a heavy gale, with all sail set   and when the eastern navigator is in a calm, the Dutchman appears to be scudding under bare poles. As many persons think such an apparition the creation of fancy, I give the following statement which was noted down in the logbook of his Majesty's ship Leven , when employed with the Barracouta ,  c, in surveying East Africa, and in the dangers and disaster of which squadron I participated.His Majesty's ship Leven , Capt. W. F. W. Owen, on the 6th April, 1823, when off Point Danger, on her voyage from Algoa to Simon's Bay, saw her consort the Barracouta about two miles to leeward. this was considered extraordinary as her sailing orders would have placed her in a different direction. but her peculiar rig left no doubt as to her identity, and at last many well known faces were distinctly visible looking towards the Leven .Capt. Owen attempted to close with her to speak, but was surprised that she not only made no effort to join the Leven , on the contrary stood away: being near the destined port, Capt. Owen did not follow her, and continued on his course to the Cape, but at sunset she was observed to heave to and lower a boat, apparently for the purpose of picking up a man overboard. during the night there was no light nor any symptoms of her locality.The next morning, the Leven anchored in Simon's Bay where for a whole week the Barracouta was anxiously expected. On her arrival (the 14th) it was seen by her log, that she was 300 miles from the Leven , when the latter thought she saw her, and had not lowered any boat that evening. it should also be remarked that no other vessel of the same class was ever seen about the Cape.On another occasion a similar phenomenon was witnessed by the Leven , and a boat was apparently lowered as is generally the case when the phantom seeks to lure his victim. The veteran sailor was not however, to be caught,* and the Leven after many perils, reached England in safety.*It is said that any vessel which the "Dutchman" can get his letters on board of is certain to be lost.Thrice as a passenger in a merchant ship, I saw a vessel in nearly similar circumstances: on one occasion we hoisted lights over the gang way to speak with the stranger. the third time was my recent return from India. We had been in "dirty weather," as the sailors say, for several days, and to beguile the afternoon I commenced after dinner narrating to the French officers and passengers (who were strangers to the Eastern seas), the stories current about the "Flying Dutchman."The wind, which had been freshening during the evening, now blew a stiff gale, and we proceeded on deck to see the crew make our bark all snug for the night. The clouds, dark and heavy, coursed with rapidity across the moon, whose lustre is peculiar in the S. hemisphere, and we could see a distance of from eight to ten miles on the horizon.Suddenly the second officer, a fine Marseilles sailor, who had been among the foremost in the cabin in laughing at and ridiculing the story of the "Flying Dutchman," ascended the weather rigging, exclaiming, " Voila le volant Hollandais! "The captain sent for his night glass, and soon observed, "It is very strange, but there is a ship bearing down upon us with all sail set, while we dare scarcely show a pocket handkerchief to the breeze."In a few minutes the stranger was visible to all on deck. her rig plainly discernible, and people on her poop. she seemed to near us with the rapidity of lightning, and apparently wished to pass under our quarter, as if for the purpose of speaking.The captain, a resolute Bordeaux mariner, said it was quite incomprehensible, and sent for the trumpet to hail or answer, when in an instant, and while we were all standing on the qui vive , the stranger totally disappeared, and was no more seen.I give this, coupled with Capt. Owen's statement as regards H. M. S. Leven , without remark, and, but that it would seem frivolous, could relate several other instances. The reader will, I hope, excuse this digression, which could not well be avoided in treating of the Cape of Good Hope, whose name is almost associated with that of the "Flying Dutchman."