Once upon a time there were seven brothers, who were orphans, and had nosister. Therefore they were obliged to do all their own housework. Thisthey did not like at all. so after much deliberation they decided to getmarried. There were, unfortunately, no young girls to be found in theplace where they lived. but the elder brothers agreed to go out into theworld and seek for brides, promising to bring back a very pretty wifefor the youngest also if he would meanwhile stay at home and take careof the house. He consented willingly, and the six young men set off ingood spirits.On their way they came to a small cottage standing quite by itself ina wood. and before the door stood an old, old man, who accosted thebrothers saying, 'Hullo, you young fellows! Whither away so fast andcheerily?''We are going to find bonny brides for ourselves, and one for ouryoungest brother at home,' they replied.'Oh! dear youths,' said the old man, 'I am terribly lonely here. praybring a bride for me also. only remember, she must be young and pretty.''What does a shrivelled old grey thing like that want with a prettyyoung bride?' thought the brothers, and went on their way.Presently they came to a town where were seven sisters, as young and aslovely as anyone could wish. Each brother chose one, and the youngestthey kept for their brother at home. Then the whole party set out on thereturn journey, and again their path led through the wood and past theold man's cottage.There he stood before the door, and cried: 'Oh! you fine fellows, what acharming bride you have brought me!''She is not for you, said the young men. 'She is for our youngestbrother, as we promised.''What!' said the old man, 'promised! I'll make you eat your promises!'And with that he took his magic wand, and, murmuring a charm, he touchedboth brothers and brides, and immediately they were turned into greystones.Only the youngest sister he had not bewitched. He took her into thecottage, and from that time she was obliged to keep house for him. Shewas not very unhappy, but one thought troubled her. What if the old manshould die and leave her here alone in the solitary cottage deep in theheart of the wood! She would be as 'terribly lonely' as he had formerlybeen.One day she told him of her fear.'Don't be anxious,' he said. 'You need neither fear my death nor desireit, for I have no heart in my breast! However, if I should die, you willfind my wand above the door, and with it you can set free your sistersand their lovers. Then you will surely have company enough.''Where in all the world do you keep your heart, if not in your breast?'asked the girl.'Do you want to know everything?' her husband said. 'Well, if you mustknow, my heart is in the bed cover.'When the old man had gone out about his business his bride passed hertime in embroidering beautiful flowers on the bed quilt to make hisheart happy. The old man was much amused. He laughed, and said toher: 'You are a good child, but I was only joking. My heart is reallyin in ''Now where is it, dear husband?''It is in the doorway,' he replied.Next day, while he was out, the girl decorated the door with gayfeathers and fresh flowers, and hung garlands upon it. And on his returnthe old fellow asked what it all meant.'I did it to show my love for your heart,' said the girl.And again the old man smiled, saying, 'You are a dear child, but myheart is not in the doorway.'Then the poor young bride was very vexed, and said, 'Ah, my dear! youreally have a heart somewhere, so you may die and leave me all alone.'The old man did his best to comfort her by repeating all he had saidbefore, but she begged him afresh to tell her truly where his heart wasand at last he told her.'Far, far from here,' said he, 'in a lonely spot, stands a great church,as old as old can be. Its doors are of iron, and round it runs a deepmoat, spanned by no bridge. Within that church is a bird which flies upand down. it never eats, and never drinks, and never dies. No one cancatch it, and while that bird lives so shall I, for in it is my heart.'It made the little bride quite sad to think she could do nothing to showher love for the old man's heart. She used to think about it as she satall alone during the long days, for her husband was almost always out.One day a young traveller came past the house, and seeing such a prettygirl he wished her 'Good day.'She returned his greeting, and as he drew near she asked him whence hecame and where he was going.'Alas!' sighed the youth, 'I am very sorrowful. I had six brothers, whowent away to find brides for themselves and one for me. but they havenever come home, so now I am going to look for them.''Oh, good friend,' said the girl, 'you need go no farther. Come, sitdown, eat and drink, and afterwards I'll tell you all about it.'She gave him food, and when he had finished his meal she told him howhis brothers had come to the town where she lived with her sisters, howthey had each chosen a bride, and, taking herself with them, had startedfor home. She wept as she told how the others were turned to stone,and how she was kept as the old man's bride. She left out nothing, eventelling him the story of her husband's heart.When the young man heard this he said: 'I shall go in search of thebird. It may be that God will help me to find and catch it.''Yes, do go,' she said. 'it will be a good deed, for then you can setyour brothers and my sisters free.' Then she hid the young man, for itwas now late, and her husband would soon be home.Next morning, when the old man had gone out, she prepared a supply ofprovisions for her guest, and sent him off on his travels, wishing himgood luck and success.He walked on and on till he thought it must be time for breakfast. sohe opened his knapsack, and was delighted to find such a store of goodthings. 'What a feast!' he exclaimed. 'will anyone come and share it?''Moo oo,' sounded close behind him, and looking round he saw a greatred ox, which said, 'I have much pleasure in accepting your kindinvitation.''I'm delighted to see you. Pray help yourself. All I have is at yourservice,' said the hospitable youth. And the ox lay down comfortably,licking his lips, and made a hearty meal.'Many thanks to you,' said the animal as it rose up. 'When you arein danger or necessity call me, even if only by a thought,' and itdisappeared among the bushes.The young man packed up all the food that was left, and wandered on tillthe shortening shadows and his own hunger warned him that it was midday.he laid the cloth on the ground and spread out his provisions, sayingat the same time: 'Dinner is ready, and anyone who wishes to share it iswelcome.'Then there was a great rustling in the undergrowth, and out ran a wildboar, grunting, 'Umph, umph, umph. someone said dinner was ready. Was ityou? and did you mean me to come?''By all means. Help yourself to what I have,' said the young traveller.And the two enjoyed their meal together.Afterwards the boar got up, saying, 'Thank you. when in need you be youmust quickly call for me,' and he rolled off.For a long time the youth walked on. By evening he was miles away. Hefelt hungry again, and, having still some provisions left, thought hehad better make ready his supper. When it was all spread out he cried asbefore, 'Anyone who cares to share my meal is welcome.'He heard a sound overhead like the flapping of wings, and a shadow wascast upon the ground. Then a huge griffin appeared, saying: 'I heardsomeone giving an invitation to eat. is there anything for me?''Why not?' said the youth. 'Come down and take all you want. There won'tbe much left after this.'So the griffin alighted and ate his fill, saying, as he flew away, 'Callme if you need me.''What a hurry he was in!' the youth said to himself. 'He might have beenable to direct me to the church, for I shall never find it alone.'He gathered up his things, and started to walk a little farther beforeresting. He had not gone far when all of a sudden he saw the church!He soon came to it, or rather to the wide and deep moat which surroundedit without a single bridge by which to cross.It was too late to attempt anything now. and, besides, the poor youthwas very tired, so he lay down on the ground and fell fast asleep.Next morning, when he awoke, he began to wish himself over the moat.and the thought occurred to him that if only the red ox were there,and thirsty enough to drink up all the water in the moat, he might walkacross it dry shod.Scarcely had the thought crossed his brain before the ox appeared andbegan to drink up the water.The grateful youth hastened across as soon as the moat was dry, butfound it impossible to penetrate the thick walls and strong iron doorsof the church.'I believe that big boar would be of more use here than I am,' hethought, and lo! at the wish the wild boar came and began to push hardagainst the wall. He managed to loosen one stone with his tusks, and,having made a beginning, stone after stone was poked out till he hadmade quite a large hole, big enough to let a man go through.The young man quickly entered the church, and saw a bird flying about,but he could not catch it.'Oh!' he exclaimed, 'if only the griffin were here, he would soon catchit.'At these words the griffin appeared, and, seizing the bird, gave it tothe youth, who carried it off carefully, while the griffin flew away.The young man hurried home as fast as possible, and reached the cottagebefore evening. He told his story to the little bride, who, after givinghim some food and drink, hid him with his bird beneath the bed.Presently the old man came home, and complained of feeling ill. Nothing,he said, would go well with him any more: his 'heart bird' was caught.The youth under the bed heard this, and thought, 'This old fellow hasdone me no particular harm, but then he has bewitched my brothers andtheir brides, and has kept my bride for himself, and that is certainlybad enough.'So he pinched the bird, and the old man cried, 'Ah! I feel deathgripping me! Child, I am dying!'With these words he fell fainting from his chair, and as the youth,before he knew what he was doing, had squeezed the bird to death, theold man died also.Out crept the young man from under the bed, and the girl took the magicwand (which she found where the old man had told her), and, touching thetwelve grey stones, transformed them at once into the six brothers andtheir brides.Then there was great joy, and kissing and embracing. And there lay theold man, quite dead, and no magic wand could restore him to life, evenhad they wished it.After that they all went away and were married, and lived many yearshappily together.