In a beautiful island that lies in the southern seas, where chains ofgay orchids bind the trees together, and the days and nights are equallylong and nearly equally hot, there once lived a family of seven sisters.Their father and mother were dead, and they had no brothers, so theeldest girl ruled over the rest, and they all did as she bade them. Onesister had to clean the house, a second carried water from the springin the forest, a third cooked their food, while to the youngest fell thehardest task of all, for she had to cut and bring home the wood whichwas to keep the fire continually burning. This was very hot and tiringwork, and when she had fed the fire and heaped up in a corner the sticksthat were to supply it till the next day, she often threw herself downunder a tree, and went sound asleep.One morning, however, as she was staggering along with her bundle on herback, she thought that the river which flowed past their hut looked socool and inviting that she determined to bathe in it, instead of takingher usual nap. Hastily piling up her load by the fire, and thrustingsome sticks into the flame, she ran down to the river and jumped in. Howdelicious it was diving and swimming and floating in the dark forest,where the trees were so thick that you could hardly see the sun! Butafter a while she began to look about her, and her eyes fell on a littlefish that seemed made out of a rainbow, so brilliant were the colours heflashed out.'I should like him for a pet,' thought the girl, and the next time thefish swam by, she put out her hand and caught him. Then she ran alongthe grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fellover some rocks into a basin. Here she put her little fish, whose namewas Djulung djulung, and promising to return soon and bring him somedinner, she went away.By the time she got home, the rice for their dinner was ready cooked,and the eldest sister gave the other six their portions in wooden bowls.But the youngest did not finish hers, and when no one was looking, stoleoff to the fountain in the forest where the little fish was swimmingabout.'See! I have not forgotten you,' she cried, and one by one she letthe grains of rice fall into the water, where the fish gobbled them upgreedily, for he had never tasted anything so nice.'That is all for to day,' she said at last, 'but I will come againto morrow,' and biding him good bye she went down the path.Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish, but every day shesaved half of her rice to give him, and called him softly in a littlesong she had made for herself. If she sometimes felt hungry, no one knewof it, and, indeed, she did not mind that much, when she saw how thefish enjoyed it. And the fish grew fat and big, but the girl grew thinand weak, and the loads of wood felt heavier every day, and at last hersisters noticed it.Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did,and one of them followed her to the fountain where Djulung lived,and saw her give him all the rice she had saved from her breakfast.Hastening home the sister told the others what she had witnessed, andthat a lovely fat fish might be had for the catching. So the eldestsister went and caught him, and he was boiled for supper, but theyoungest sister was away in the woods, and did not know anything aboutit.Next morning she went as usual to the cave, and sang her little song,but no Djulung came to answer it. twice and thrice she sang, then threwherself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, butthe trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it.'Djulung cannot be dead, or his body would be floating on the surface,'she said to herself, and rising to her feet she set out homewards,feeling all of a sudden strangely tired.'What is the matter with me?' she thought, but somehow or other shemanaged to reach the hut, and threw herself down in a corner, where sheslept so soundly that for days no one was able to wake her.At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud thatshe could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed tounderstand what he was saying, and that he was telling her that Djulungwas dead, killed and eaten by her sisters, and that his bones lay buriedunder the kitchen fire. Very softly she got up, and took up the largestone under the fire, and creeping out carried the bones to the caveby the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as shescooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bonesgrow till they became a tree a tree that reached up so high into theheavens that its leaves would fall across the sea into another island,whose king would pick them up.As there was no Djulung to give her rice to, the girl soon became fatagain, and as she was able to do her work as of old, her sisters did nottrouble about her. They never guessed that when she went into the forestto gather her sticks, she never failed to pay a visit to the tree, whichgrew taller and more wonderful day by day. Never was such a tree seenbefore. Its trunk was of iron, its leaves were of silk, its flowers ofgold, and its fruit of diamonds, and one evening, though the girl didnot know it, a soft breeze took one of the leaves, and blew it acrossthe sea to the feet of one of the king's attendants.'What a curious leaf! I have never beheld one like it before. I mustshow it to the king,' he said, and when the king saw it he declared hewould never rest until he had found the tree which bore it, even if hehad to spend the rest of his life in visiting the islands that lay allround. Happily for him, he began with the island that was nearest, andhere in the forest he suddenly saw standing before him the iron tree,its boughs covered with shining leaves like the one he carried abouthim.'But what sort of a tree is it, and how did it get here?' he asked ofthe attendants he had with him. No one could answer him, but as theywere about to pass out of the forest a little boy went by, and the kingstopped and inquired if there was anyone living in the neighbourhoodwhom he might question.'Seven girls live in a hut down there,' replied the boy, pointing withhis finger to where the sun was setting.'Then go and bring them here, and I will wait,' said the king, and theboy ran off and told the sisters that a great chief, with strings ofjewels round his neck, had sent for them.Pleased and excited the six elder sisters at once followed the boy, butthe youngest, who was busy, and who did not care about strangers, stayedbehind, to finish the work she was doing. The king welcomed the girlseagerly, and asked them all manner of questions about the tree, but asthey had never even heard of its existence, they could tell him nothing.'And if we, who live close by the forest, do not know, you may be sureno one does,' added the eldest, who was rather cross at finding this wasall that the king wanted of them.'But the boy told me there were seven of you, and there are only sixhere,' said the king.'Oh, the youngest is at home, but she is always half asleep, and is ofno use except to cut wood for the fire,' replied they in a breath.'That may be, but perhaps she dreams,' answered the king. 'Anyway, Iwill speak to her also.' Then he signed to one of his attendants, whofollowed the path that the boy had taken to the hut.Soon the man returned, with the girl walking behind him. And as soon asshe reached the tree it bowed itself to the earth before her, and shestretched out her hand and picked some of its leaves and flowers andgave them to the king.'The maiden who can work such wonders is fitted to be the wife of thegreatest chief,' he said, and so he married her, and took her with himacross the sea to his own home, where they lived happily for ever after.From 'Folk Lore,' by A. F. Mackenzie.