(12) From the Bukowniaer. Von Wliolocki.There was once upon a time a poor boy who had neither father nor mother.In order to gain a living he looked after the sheep of a great Lord. Dayand night he spent out in the open fields, and only when it was verywet and stormy did he take refuge in a little hut on the edge of abig forest. Now one night, when he was sitting on the grass beside hisflocks, he heard not very far from him the sound as of some one crying.He rose up and followed the direction of the noise. To his dismay andastonishment he found a Giant lying at the entrance of the wood. he wasabout to run off as fast as his legs could carry him, when the Giantcalled out: 'Don't be afraid, I won't harm you. On the contrary, I willreward you handsomely if you will bind up my foot. I hurt it when I wastrying to root up an oak tree.' The Herd boy took off his shirt, andbound up the Giant's wounded foot with it. Then the Giant rose up andsaid, 'Now come and I will reward you. We are going to celebrate amarriage to day, and I promise you we shall have plenty of fun. Come andenjoy yourself, but in order that my brothers mayn't see you, put thisband round your waist and then you'll be invisible.' With these wordshe handed the Herd boy a belt, and walking on in front he led him toa fountain where hundreds of Giants and Giantesses were assembledpreparing to hold a wedding. They danced and played different games tillmidnight. then one of the Giants tore up a plant by its roots, and allthe Giants and Giantesses made themselves so thin that they disappearedinto the earth through the hole made by the uprooting of the plant. Thewounded Giant remained behind to the last and called out, 'Herd boy,where are you?' 'Here I am, close to you,' was the reply. 'Touch me,'said the Giant, 'so that you too may come with us under ground.' TheHerd boy did as he was told, and before he could have believed itpossible he found himself in a big hall, where even the walls weremade of pure gold. Then to his astonishment he saw that the hall wasfurnished with the tables and chairs that belonged to his master. In afew minutes the company began to eat and drink.The banquet was a very gorgeous one, and the poor youth fell to and ateand drank lustily. When he had eaten and drunk as much as he could hethought to himself, 'Why shouldn't I put a loaf of bread in my pocket?I shall be glad of it to morrow.' So he seized a loaf when no one waslooking and stowed it away under his tunic. No sooner had he done sothan the wounded Giant limped up to him and whispered softly, 'Herd boy,where are you?' 'Here I am,' replied the youth. 'Then hold on to me,'said the Giant, 'so that I may lead you up above again.' So the Herd boyheld on to the Giant, and in a few moments he found himself on the earthonce more, but the Giant had vanished. The Herd boy returned to hissheep, and took off the invisible belt which he hid carefully in hisbag.The next morning the lad felt hungry, and thought he would cut off apiece of the loaf he had carried away from the Giants' wedding feast,and eat it. But although he tried with all his might, he couldn't cutoff the smallest piece. Then in despair he bit the loaf, and what washis astonishment when a piece of gold fell out of his mouth and rolledat his feet. He bit the bread a second and third time, and each time apiece of gold fell out of his mouth. but the bread remained untouched.The Herd boy was very much delighted over his stroke of good fortune,and, hiding the magic loaf in his bag, he hurried off to the nearestvillage to buy himself something to eat, and then returned to his sheep.Now the Lord whose sheep the Herd boy looked after had a very lovelydaughter, who always smiled and nodded to the youth when she walked withher father in his fields. For a long time the Herd boy had made up hismind to prepare a surprise for this beautiful creature on her birthday.So when the day approached he put on his invisible belt, took a sack ofgold pieces with him, and slipping into her room in the middle of thenight, he placed the bag of gold beside her bed and returned to hissheep. The girl's joy was great, and so was her parents' next day whenthey found the sack full of gold pieces. The Herd boy was so pleased tothink what pleasure he had given that the next night he placed anotherbag of gold beside the girl's bed. And this he continued to do for sevennights, and the girl and her parents made up their minds that it mustbe a good Fairy who brought the gold every night. But one night theydetermined to watch, and see from their hiding place who the bringer ofthe sack of gold really was.On the eighth night a fearful storm of wind and rain came on while theHerd boy was on his way to bring the beautiful girl another bag of gold.Then for the first time he noticed, just as he reached his master'shouse, that he had forgotten the belt which made him invisible. Hedidn't like the idea of going back to his hut in the wind and wet, sohe just stepped as he was into the girl's room, laid the sack ofgold beside her, and was turning to leave the room, when his masterconfronted him and said, 'You young rogue, so you were going to stealthe gold that a good Fairy brings every night, were you?' The Herd boywas so taken aback by his words, that he stood trembling before him,and did not dare to explain his presence. Then his master spoke. 'As youhave hitherto always behaved well in my service I will not send you toprison. but leave your place instantly and never let me see your faceagain.' So the Herd boy went back to his hut, and taking his loaf andbelt with him, he went to the nearest town. There he bought himselfsome fine clothes, and a beautiful coach with four horses, hired twoservants, and drove back to his master. You may imagine how astonishedhe was to see his Herd boy returning to him in this manner! Then theyouth told him of the piece of good luck that had befallen him, andasked him for the hand of his beautiful daughter. This was readilygranted, and the two lived in peace and happiness to the end of theirlives.