Once upon a time there was an old poet, one of those right goodold poets.One evening, as he was sitting at home, there was a terrible stormgoing on outside. the rain was pouring down, but the old poet satcomfortably in his chimney corner, where the fire was burning andthe apples were roasting."There will not be a dry thread left on the poor people who areout in this weather," he said."Oh, open the door! I am so cold and wet through," called a littlechild outside. It was crying and knocking at the door, whilst the rainwas pouring down and the wind was rattling all the windows."Poor creature!" said the poet, and got up and opened the door.Before him stood a little boy. he was naked, and the water flowed fromhis long fair locks. He was shivering with cold. if he had not beenlet in, he would certainly have perished in the storm."Poor little thing!" said the poet, and took him by the hand."Come to me. I will soon warm you. You shall have some wine and anapple, for you are such a pretty boy."And he was, too. His eyes sparkled like two bright stars, andalthough the water flowed down from his fair locks, they stillcurled quite beautifully.He looked like a little angel, but was pale with cold, andtrembling all over. In his hand he held a splendid bow, but it hadbeen entirely spoilt by the rain, and the colours of the pretty arrowshad run into one another by getting wet.The old man sat down by the fire, and taking the little boy on hisknee, wrung the water out of his locks and warmed his hands in hisown.He then made him some hot spiced wine, which quickly revivedhim. so that with reddening cheeks, he sprang upon the floor anddanced around the old man."You are a merry boy," said the latter. "What is your name?""My name is Cupid," he answered. "Don't you know me? There lies mybow. I shoot with that, you know. Look, the weather is getting fineagain the moon is shining.""But your bow is spoilt," said the old poet."That would be unfortunate," said the little boy, taking it up andlooking at it. "Oh, it's quite dry and isn't damaged at all. Thestring is quite tight. I'll try it." So, drawing it back, he took anarrow, aimed, and shot the good old poet right in the heart. "Do yousee now that my bow was not spoilt?" he said, and, loudly laughing,ran away. What a naughty boy to shoot the old poet like that, whohad taken him into his warm room, had been so good to him, and hadgiven him the nicest wine and the best apple!The good old man lay upon the floor crying. he was really shotin the heart. "Oh!" he cried, "what a naughty boy this Cupid is! Ishall tell all the good children about this, so that they take carenever to play with him, lest he hurt them."And all good children, both girls and boys, whom he told aboutthis, were on their guard against wicked Cupid. but he deceives themall the same, for he is very deep. When the students come out ofclass, he walks beside them with a book under his arm, and wearing ablack coat. They cannot recognize him. And then, if they take him bythe arm, believing him to be a student too, he sticks an arrow intotheir chest. And when the girls go to church to be confirmed, he isamongst them too. In fact, he is always after people. He sits in thelarge chandelier in the theatre and blazes away, so that peoplethink it is a lamp. but they soon find out their mistake. He walksabout in the castle garden and on the promenades. Yes, once he shotyour father and your mother in the heart too. Just ask them, and youwill hear what they say. Oh! he is a bad boy, this Cupid, and you mustnever have anything to do with him, for he is after every one. Justthink, he even shot an arrow at old grandmother. but that was a longtime ago. The wound has long been healed, but such things are neverforgotten.Now you know what a bad boy this wicked Cupid is.