There was once a turtle who lived among a great many people of differentkinds, in a large camp near a big river which was born right up amongstthe snows, and flowed straight away south till it reached a sea wherethe water was always hot.There were many other turtles in the camp, and this turtle was kind andpleasant to them all, but he did not care for any of them very much, andfelt rather lonely.At last he built himself a hut, and filled it with skins for seats, andmade it as comfortable as any hut for miles round. and when it was quitefinished he looked about among the young women to see which of them heshould ask to be his wife.It took him some time to make up his mind, for no turtle likes beinghurried, but at length he found one girl who seemed prettier and moreindustrious than the rest, and one day he entered her home, and said:'Will you marry me?'The young woman was so surprised at this question that she droppedthe beaded slipper she was making, and stared at the turtle. She feltinclined to laugh the idea was so absurd. but she was kind hearted andpolite, so she looked as grave as she could, and answered:'But how are you going to provide for a family? Why, when the campmoves, you will not even be able to keep up with the rest!''I can keep up with the best of them,' replied the turtle, tossing hishead. But though he was very much offended he did not let the girl seeit, and begged and, prayed her so hard to marry him that, at last, sheconsented, very unwillingly.'You will have to wait till the spring, though,' she said. 'I must makea great many slippers and dresses for myself, as I shall not have muchtime afterwards.'This did not please the turtle. but he knew it was no use talking, soall he answered was:'I shall go to war and take some captives, and I shall be away severalmonths. And when I return I shall expect you to be ready to marry me.'So he went back to his hut, and at once set about his preparations. Thefirst thing he did was to call all his relations together, and ask themif they would come with him and make war on the people of a neighbouringvillage. The turtles, who were tired of doing nothing, agreed at once,and next day the whole tribe left the camp. The girl was standing atthe door of her hut as they passed, and laughed out loud they movedso slowly. Her lover, who was marching at the head, grew very angry atthis, and cried out:'In four days from now you will be weeping instead of laughing, becausethere will be hundreds of miles between you and me.''In four days,' replied the girl who only promised to marry him inorder to get rid of him 'in four days you will hardly be out of sight.''Oh, I did not mean four days, but four YEARS,' answered the turtle,hastily. 'whatever happens I shall be back by then.'The army marched on, till one day, when they felt as if they must havegot half round the earth, though they were scarcely four miles from thecamp, they found a large tree lying across their path. They looked at itwith dismay, and the oldest among them put their heads together to seewhat was to be done.'Can't we manage to get past by the top?' asked one.'Why, it would take us YEARS,' exclaimed another. 'Just look at allthose tall green branches, spreading in every direction. If once we gotentangled in THEM, we should never get out again!''Well then, let us go round by the bottom,' said a third.'How are we to do that, when the roots have made a deep hole, and abovethat is a high bank?' replied a fourth. 'No. the only way I can thinkof, is to burn a large hole in the trunk.' And this they did, but thetrunk was very thick, and would not burn through.'It is no use, we must give it up,' they agreed at last. 'After all,nobody need ever know! We have been away such a long while that wemight easily have had all sorts of adventures.' And so the whole companyturned homewards again.They took even longer to go back than they had to come, for they weretired and footsore with their journey. When they drew near the campthey plucked up their courage, and began to sing a war song. At this thevillagers came flocking to see what spoils the turtles had won, but, asthey approached, each turtle seized some one by the wrist, exclaiming:'You are our spoils. you are our prisoners!''Now that I have got you I will keep you,' said the leader, who hadhappened to seize his betrothed.Everybody was naturally very angry at this behaviour, and the girl mostof all, and in her secret heart she determined to have her revenge. But,just at present, the turtles were too strong, so the prisoners had toput on their smartest slippers and their brightest clothes, and dance awar dance while the turtles sang. They danced so long that it seemed asif they would never stop, till the turtle who was leading the singingsuddenly broke into a loud chant:Whoever comes here, will die, will die!At this all the dancers grew so frightened that they burst throughthe ring of their captors, and ran back to the village, the turtlesfollowing very slowly. On the way the chief turtle met a man, who saidto him:'That woman who was to have been your wife has married another man!''Is that true?' said the turtle. 'Then I must see him.'But as soon as the villager was out of sight the turtle stopped, andtaking a bundle containing fringes and ornaments from his back, he hungthem about him, so that they rattled as he walked. When he was quiteclose to the hut where the woman lived, he cried out:'Here I am to claim the woman who promised to be my wife.''Oh, here is the turtle,' whispered the husband hurriedly. 'what is tobe done now?''Leave that to me. I will manage him,' replied the wife, and at thatmoment the turtle came in, and seized her by the wrist. 'Come with me,'he said sternly.'You broke your promise,' answered she. 'You said you would be backsoon, and it is more than a year since you went! How was I to know thatyou were alive?'At her words the husband took courage, and spoke hastily:'Yes, you promised you would go to war and bring back some prisoners,and you have not done it.''I DID go, and made many prisoners,' retorted the turtle angrily,drawing out his knife. 'Look here, if she won't be MY wife, she sha'n'tbe YOURS. I will cut her in two. and you shall have one half, and I theother.''But half a woman is no use to me,' answered the man. 'If you wanther so much you had better take her.' And the turtle, followed by hisrelations, carried her off to his own hut.Now the woman saw she would gain nothing by being sulky, so shepretended to be very glad to have got rid of her husband. but allthe while she was trying to invent a plan to deliver herself from theturtle. At length she remembered that one of her friends had a largeiron pot, and when the turtle had gone to his room to put away hisfringes, she ran over to her neighbour's and brought it back. Then shefilled it with water and hung it over the fire to boil. It was justbeginning to bubble and hiss when the turtle entered.'What are you doing there?' asked he, for he was always afraid of thingsthat he did not understand.'Just warming some water,' she answered. 'Do you know how to swim?''Yes, of course I do. What a question! But what does it matter to you?'said the turtle, more suspicious than ever.'Oh, I only thought that after your long journey you might like to wash.The roads are so muddy, after the winter's rains. I could rub your shellfor you till it was bright and shining again.'Well, I AM rather muddy. If one is fighting, you know, one cannot stopto pick one's way. I should certainly be more comfortable if my back waswashed.'The woman did not wait for him to change his mind. She caught him upby his shell and popped him straight into the pot, where he sank to thebottom, and died instantly.The other turtles, who were standing at the door, saw their leaderdisappear, and felt it was their duty as soldiers to follow him.and, springing into the pot, died too. All but one young turtle, who,frightened at not seeing any of his friends come out again, went as fastas he could to a clump of bushes, and from there made his way to theriver. His only thought was to get away as far as possible from thatdreadful hut. so he let the river carry him where it was going itself,and at last, one day, he found himself in the warm sea, where, if he isnot dead, you may meet him still.