Once upon a time, and be sure 'twas a long time ago, there lived a poorwoodman in a great forest, and every day of his life he went out to felltimber. So one day he started out, and the goodwife filled his wallet andslung his bottle on his back, that he might have meat and drink in theforest. He had marked out a huge old oak, which, thought he, would furnishmany and many a good plank. And when he was come to it, he took his ax inhis hand and swung it round his head as though he were minded to fell thetree at one stroke. But he hadn't given one blow, when what should he hearbut the pitifullest entreating, and there stood before him a fairy whoprayed and beseeched him to spare the tree. He was dazed, as you mayfancy, with wonderment and affright, and he couldn't open his mouth toutter a word. But he found his tongue at last, and, "Well," said he, "I'lle'en do as thou wishest.""You've done better for yourself than you know," answered the fairy,"and to show I'm not ungrateful, I'll grant you your next three wishes, bethey what they may." And therewith the fairy was no more to be seen, andthe woodman slung his wallet over his shoulder and his bottle at his side,and off he started home.But the way was long, and the poor man was regularly dazed with thewonderful thing that had befallen him, and when he got home there wasnothing in his noddle but the wish to sit down and rest. Maybe, too, 'twasa trick of the fairy's. Who can tell? Anyhow, down he sat by the blazingfire, and as he sat he waxed hungry, though it was a long way offsuppertime yet."Hasn't thou naught for supper, dame?" said he to his wife."Nay, not for a couple of hours yet," said she."Ah!" groaned the woodman, "I wish I'd a good link of black puddinghere before me."No sooner had he said the word, when clatter, clatter, rustle, rustle,what should come down the chimney but a link of the finest black puddingthe heart of man could wish for.If the woodman stared, the goodwife stared three times as much. "What'sall this?" says she.Then all the morning's work came back to the woodman, and he told histale right out, from beginning to end, and as he told it the goodwifeglowered and glowered, and when he had made an end of it she burst out,"Thou bee'st but a fool, Jan, thou bee'st but a fool. and I wish thepudding were at thy nose, I do indeed."And before you could say "Jack Robinson," there the goodman sat, andhis nose was the longer for a noble link of black pudding.He gave a pull, but it stuck, and she gave a pull, but it stuck, andthey both pulled till they had nigh pulled the nose off, but it stuck andstuck."What's to be done now?" said he."'Tisn't so very unsightly," said she, looking hard at him.Then the woodman saw that if he wished, he must need wish in a hurry.and wish he did, that the black pudding might come off his nose. Well!there it lay in a dish on the table, and if the goodman and goodwifedidn't ride in a golden coach, or dress in silk and satin, why, they hadat least as fine a black pudding for their supper as the heart of mancould desire.