Jim was the son of a cowboy, and lived on the broad plains ofArizona. His father had trained him to lasso a bronco or a youngbull with perfect accuracy, and had Jim possessed the strength toback up his skill he would have been as good a cowboy as any in allArizona.When he was twelve years old he made his first visit to the east,where Uncle Charles, his father's brother, lived. Of course Jim tookhis lasso with him, for he was proud of his skill in casting it, andwanted to show his cousins what a cowboy could do.At first the city boys and girls were much interested in watchingJim lasso posts and fence pickets, but they soon tired of it, andeven Jim decided it was not the right sort of sport for cities.But one day the butcher asked Jim to ride one of his horses into thecountry, to a pasture that had been engaged, and Jim eagerlyconsented. He had been longing for a horseback ride, and to make itseem like old times he took his lasso with him.He rode through the streets demurely enough, but on reaching theopen country roads his spirits broke forth into wild jubilation,and, urging the butcher's horse to full gallop, he dashed away intrue cowboy fashion.Then he wanted still more liberty, and letting down the bars thatled into a big field he began riding over the meadow and throwinghis lasso at imaginary cattle, while he yelled and whooped to hisheart's content.Suddenly, on making a long cast with his lasso, the loop caught uponsomething and rested about three feet from the ground, while therope drew taut and nearly pulled Jim from his horse.This was unexpected. More than that, it was wonderful. for the fieldseemed bare of even a stump. Jim's eyes grew big with amazement, buthe knew he had caught something when a voice cried out:"Here, let go! Let go, I say! Can't you see what you've done?"No, Jim couldn't see, nor did he intend to let go until he found outwhat was holding the loop of the lasso. So he resorted to an oldtrick his father had taught him and, putting the butcher's horse toa run, began riding in a circle around the spot where his lasso hadcaught.As he thus drew nearer and nearer his quarry he saw the rope coilup, yet it looked to be coiling over nothing but air. One end of thelasso was made fast to a ring in the saddle, and when the rope wasalmost wound up and the horse began to pull away and snort withfear, Jim dismounted. Holding the reins of the bridle in one hand,he followed the rope, and an instant later saw an old man caughtfast in the coils of the lasso.His head was bald and uncovered, but long white whiskers grew downto his waist. About his body was thrown a loose robe of fine whitelinen. In one hand he bore a great scythe, and beneath the other armhe carried an hourglass.While Jim gazed wonderingly upon him, this venerable old man spokein an angry voice:"Now, then get that rope off as fast as you can! You've broughteverything on earth to a standstill by your foolishness! Well whatare you staring at? Don't you know who I am?""No," said Jim, stupidly."Well, I'm Time Father Time! Now, make haste and set me free ifyou want the world to run properly.""How did I happen to catch you?" asked Jim, without making a move torelease his captive."I don't know. I've never been caught before," growled Father Time."But I suppose it was because you were foolishly throwing your lassoat nothing.""I didn't see you," said Jim."Of course you didn't. I'm invisible to the eyes of human beingsunless they get within three feet of me, and I take care to keepmore than that distance away from them. That's why I was crossingthis field, where I supposed no one would be. And I should have beenperfectly safe had it not been for your beastly lasso. Now, then,"he added, crossly, "are you going to get that rope off?""Why should I?" asked Jim."Because everything in the world stopped moving the moment youcaught me. I don't suppose you want to make an end of all businessand pleasure, and war and love, and misery and ambition andeverything else, do you? Not a watch has ticked since you tied me uphere like a mummy!"Jim laughed. It really was funny to see the old man wound round andround with coils of rope from his knees up to his chin."It'll do you good to rest," said the boy. "From all I've heard youlead a rather busy life.""Indeed I do," replied Father Time, with a sigh. "I'm due inKamchatka this very minute. And to think one small boy is upsettingall my regular habits!""Too bad!" said Jim, with a grin. "But since the world has stoppedanyhow, it won't matter if it takes a little longer recess. As soonas I let you go Time will fly again. Where are your wings?""I haven't any," answered the old man. "That is a story cooked up bysome one who never saw me. As a matter of fact, I move ratherslowly.""I see, you take your time," remarked the boy. "What do you use thatscythe for?""To mow down the people," said the ancient one. "Every time I swingmy scythe some one dies.""Then I ought to win a life saving medal by keeping you tied up,"said Jim. "Some folks will live this much longer.""But they won't know it," said Father Time, with a sad smile. "so itwill do them no good. You may as well untie me at once.""No," said Jim, with a determined air. "I may never capture youagain. so I'll hold you for awhile and see how the world wagswithout you."Then he swung the old man, bound as he was, upon the back of thebutcher's horse, and, getting into the saddle himself, started backtoward town, one hand holding his prisoner and the other guiding thereins.When he reached the road his eye fell on a strange tableau. A horseand buggy stood in the middle of the road, the horse in the act oftrotting, with his head held high and two legs in the air, butperfectly motionless. In the buggy a man and a woman were seated.but had they been turned into stone they could not have been morestill and stiff."There's no Time for them!" sighed the old man. "Won't you let me gonow?""Not yet," replied the boy.He rode on until he reached the city, where all the people stood inexactly the same positions they were in when Jim lassoed FatherTime. Stopping in front of a big dry goods store, the boy hitchedhis horse and went in. The clerks were measuring out goods andshowing patterns to the rows of customers in front of them, buteveryone seemed suddenly to have become a statue.There was something very unpleasant in this scene, and a cold shiverbegan to run up and down Jim's back. so he hurried out again.On the edge of the sidewalk sat a poor, crippled beggar, holding outhis hat, and beside him stood a prosperous looking gentleman who wasabout to drop a penny into the beggar's hat. Jim knew this gentlemanto be very rich but rather stingy, so he ventured to run his handinto the man's pocket and take out his purse, in which was a 20gold piece. This glittering coin he put in the gentleman's fingersinstead of the penny and then restored the purse to the rich man'spocket."That donation will surprise him when he comes to life," thought theboy.He mounted the horse again and rode up the street. As he passed theshop of his friend, the butcher, he noticed several pieces of meathanging outside."I'm afraid that meat'll spoil," he remarked."It takes Time to spoil meat," answered the old man.This struck Jim as being queer, but true."It seems Time meddles with everything," said he."Yes. you've made a prisoner of the most important personage in theworld," groaned the old man. "and you haven't enough sense to lethim go again."Jim did not reply, and soon they came to his uncle's house, where heagain dismounted. The street was filled with teams and people, butall were motionless. His two little cousins were just coming out thegate on their way to school, with their books and slates underneaththeir arms. so Jim had to jump over the fence to avoid knocking themdown.In the front room sat his aunt, reading her Bible. She was justturning a page when Time stopped. In the dining room was his uncle,finishing his luncheon. His mouth was open and his fork poised justbefore it, while his eyes were fixed upon the newspaper foldedbeside him. Jim helped himself to his uncle's pie, and while he ateit he walked out to his prisoner."There's one thing I don't understand," said he."What's that?" asked Father Time."Why is it that I'm able to move around while everyone elseis is froze up?""That is because I'm your prisoner," answered the other. "You can doanything you wish with Time now. But unless you are careful you'lldo something you will be sorry for."Jim threw the crust of his pie at a bird that was suspended in theair, where it had been flying when Time stopped."Anyway," he laughed, "I'm living longer than anyone else. No onewill ever be able to catch up with me again.""Each life has its allotted span," said the old man. "When you havelived your proper time my scythe will mow you down.""I forgot your scythe," said Jim, thoughtfully.Then a spirit of mischief came into the boy's head, for he happenedto think that the present opportunity to have fun would never occuragain. He tied Father Time to his uncle's hitching post, that hemight not escape, and then crossed the road to the corner grocery.The grocer had scolded Jim that very morning for stepping into abasket of turnips by accident. So the boy went to the back end ofthe grocery and turned on the faucet of the molasses barrel."That'll make a nice mess when Time starts the molasses running allover the floor," said Jim, with a laugh.A little further down the street was a barber shop, and sitting inthe barber's chair Jim saw the man that all the boys declared wasthe "meanest man in town." He certainly did not like the boys andthe boys knew it. The barber was in the act of shampooing thisperson when Time was captured. Jim ran to the drug store, and,getting a bottle of mucilage, he returned and poured it over theruffled hair of the unpopular citizen."That'll probably surprise him when he wakes up," thought Jim.Near by was the schoolhouse. Jim entered it and found that only afew of the pupils were assembled. But the teacher sat at his desk,stern and frowning as usual.Taking a piece of chalk, Jim marked upon the blackboard in bigletters the following words:"Every scholar is requested to yell the minute he enters the room.He will also please throw his books at the teacher's head. Signed,Prof. Sharpe.""That ought to raise a nice rumpus," murmured the mischiefmaker, ashe walked away.On the corner stood Policeman Mulligan, talking with old MissScrapple, the worst gossip in town, who always delighted in sayingsomething disagreeable about her neighbors. Jim thought thisopportunity was too good to lose. So he took off the policeman's capand brass buttoned coat and put them on Miss Scrapple, while thelady's feathered and ribboned hat he placed jauntily upon thepoliceman's head.The effect was so comical that the boy laughed aloud, and as a goodmany people were standing near the corner Jim decided that MissScrapple and Officer Mulligan would create a sensation when Timestarted upon his travels.Then the young cowboy remembered his prisoner, and, walking back tothe hitching post, he came within three feet of it and saw FatherTime still standing patiently within the toils of the lasso. Helooked angry and annoyed, however, and growled out:"Well, when do you intend to release me?""I've been thinking about that ugly scythe of yours," said Jim."What about it?" asked Father Time."Perhaps if I let you go you'll swing it at me the first thing, tobe revenged," replied the boy.Father Time gave him a severe look, but said:"I've known boys for thousands of years, and of course I knowthey're mischievous and reckless. But I like boys, because they growup to be men and people my world. Now, if a man had caught me byaccident, as you did, I could have scared him into letting me goinstantly. but boys are harder to scare. I don't know as I blameyou. I was a boy myself, long ago, when the world was new. Butsurely you've had enough fun with me by this time, and now I hopeyou'll show the respect that is due to old age. Let me go, and inreturn I will promise to forget all about my capture. The incidentwon't do much harm, anyway, for no one will ever know that Time hashalted the last three hours or so.""All right," said Jim, cheerfully, "since you've promised not to mowme down, I'll let you go." But he had a notion some people in thetown would suspect Time had stopped when they returned to life.He carefully unwound the rope from the old man, who, when he wasfree, at once shouldered his scythe, rearranged his white robe andnodded farewell.The next moment he had disappeared, and with a rustle and rumble androar of activity the world came to life again and jogged along as italways had before.Jim wound up his lasso, mounted the butcher's horse and rode slowlydown the street.Loud screams came from the corner, where a great crowd of peoplequickly assembled. From his seat on the horse Jim saw Miss Scrapple,attired in the policeman's uniform, angrily shaking her fists inMulligan's face, while the officer was furiously stamping upon thelady's hat, which he had torn from his own head amidst the jeers ofthe crowd.As he rode past the schoolhouse he heard a tremendous chorus ofyells, and knew Prof. Sharpe was having a hard time to quell theriot caused by the sign on the blackboard.Through the window of the barber shop he saw the "mean man"frantically belaboring the barber with a hair brush, while his hairstood up stiff as bayonets in all directions. And the grocer ran outof his door and yelled "Fire!" while his shoes left a track ofmolasses wherever he stepped.Jim's heart was filled with joy. He was fairly reveling in theexcitement he had caused when some one caught his leg and pulled himfrom the horse."What're ye doin' hear, ye rascal?" cried the butcher, angrily."didn't ye promise to put that beast inter Plympton's pasture? An'now I find ye ridin' the poor nag around like a gentleman o'leisure!""That's a fact," said Jim, with surprise. "I clean forgot about thehorse!"This story should teach us the supreme importance of Time and thefolly of trying to stop it. For should you succeed, as Jim did, inbringing Time to a standstill, the world would soon become a drearyplace and life decidedly unpleasant.