Long, long ago there was a large plain called Adachigahara, in theprovince of Mutsu in Japan. This place was said to be haunted by acannibal goblin who took the form of an old woman. From time to timemany travelers disappeared and were never heard of more, and the oldwomen round the charcoal braziers in the evenings, and the girlswashing the household rice at the wells in the mornings, whispereddreadful stories of how the missing folk had been lured to the goblin'scottage and devoured, for the goblin lived only on human flesh. No onedared to venture near the haunted spot after sunset, and all those whocould, avoided it in the daytime, and travelers were warned of thedreaded place.One day as the sun was setting, a priest came to the plain. He was abelated traveler, and his robe showed that he was a Buddhist pilgrimwalking from shrine to shrine to pray for some blessing or to crave forforgiveness of sins. He had apparently lost his way, and as it was latehe met no one who could show him the road or warn him of the hauntedspot.He had walked the whole day and was now tired and hungry, and theevenings were chilly, for it was late autumn, and he began to be veryanxious to find some house where he could obtain a night's lodging. Hefound himself lost in the midst of the large plain, and looked about invain for some sign of human habitation.At last, after wandering about for some hours, he saw a clump of treesin the distance, and through the trees he caught sight of the glimmerof a single ray of light. He exclaimed with joy:"Oh. surely that is some cottage where I can get a night's lodging!"Keeping the light before his eyes he dragged his weary, aching feet asquickly as he could towards the spot, and soon came to amiserable looking little cottage. As he drew near he saw that it was ina tumble down condition, the bamboo fence was broken and weeds andgrass pushed their way through the gaps. The paper screens which serveas windows and doors in Japan were full of holes, and the posts of thehouse were bent with age and seemed scarcely able to support the oldthatched roof. The hut was open, and by the light of an old lantern anold woman sat industriously spinning.The pilgrim called to her across the bamboo fence and said:"O Baa San (old woman), good evening! I am a traveler! Please excuseme, but I have lost my way and do not know what to do, for I havenowhere to rest to night. I beg you to be good enough to let me spendthe night under your roof."The old woman as soon as she heard herself spoken to stopped spinning,rose from her seat and approached the intruder."I am very sorry for you. You must indeed be distressed to have lostyour way in such a lonely spot so late at night. Unfortunately I cannotput you up, for I have no bed to offer you, and no accommodationwhatsoever for a guest in this poor place!""Oh, that does not matter," said the priest. "all I want is a shelterunder some roof for the night, and if you will be good enough just tolet me lie on the kitchen floor I shall be grateful. I am too tired towalk further to night, so I hope you will not refuse me, otherwise Ishall have to sleep out on the cold plain." And in this way he pressedthe old woman to let him stay.She seemed very reluctant, but at last she said:"Very well, I will let you stay here. I can offer you a very poorwelcome only, but come in now and I will make a fire, for the night iscold."The pilgrim was only too glad to do as he was told. He took off hissandals and entered the hut. The old woman then brought some sticks ofwood and lit the fire, and bade her guest draw near and warm himself."You must be hungry after your long tramp," said the old woman. "I willgo and cook some supper for you." She then went to the kitchen to cooksome rice.After the priest had finished his supper the old woman sat down by thefire place, and they talked together for a long time. The pilgrimthought to himself that he had been very lucky to come across such akind, hospitable old woman. At last the wood gave out, and as the firedied slowly down he began to shiver with cold just as he had done whenhe arrived."I see you are cold," said the old woman. "I will go out and gathersome wood, for we have used it all. You must stay and take care of thehouse while I am gone.""No, no," said the pilgrim, "let me go instead, for you are old, and Icannot think of letting you go out to get wood for me this cold night!"The old woman shook her head and said:"You must stay quietly here, for you are my guest." Then she left himand went out.In a minute she came back and said:"You must sit where you are and not move, and whatever happens don't gonear or look into the inner room. Now mind what I tell you!""If you tell me not to go near the back room, of course I won't," saidthe priest, rather bewildered.The old woman then went out again, and the priest was left alone. Thefire had died out, and the only light in the hut was that of a dimlantern. For the first time that night he began to feel that he was ina weird place, and the old woman's words, "Whatever you do don't peepinto the back room," aroused his curiosity and his fear.What hidden thing could be in that room that she did not wish him tosee? For some time the remembrance of his promise to the old woman kepthim still, but at last he could no longer resist his curiosity to peepinto the forbidden place.He got up and began to move slowly towards the back room. Then thethought that the old woman would be very angry with him if he disobeyedher made him come back to his place by the fireside.As the minutes went slowly by and the old woman did not return, hebegan to feel more and more frightened, and to wonder what dreadfulsecret was in the room behind him. He must find out."She will not know that I have looked unless I tell her. I will justhave a peep before she comes back," said the man to himself.With these words he got up on his feet (for he had been sitting allthis time in Japanese fashion with his feet under him) and stealthilycrept towards the forbidden spot. With trembling hands he pushed backthe sliding door and looked in. What he saw froze the blood in hisveins. The room was full of dead men's bones and the walls weresplashed and the floor was covered with human blood. In one cornerskull upon skull rose to the ceiling, in another was a heap of armbones, in another a heap of leg bones. The sickening smell made himfaint. He fell backwards with horror, and for some time lay in a heapwith fright on the floor, a pitiful sight. He trembled all over and histeeth chattered, and he could hardly crawl away from the dreadful spot."How horrible!" he cried out. "What awful den have I come to in mytravels? May Buddha help me or I am lost. Is it possible that that kindold woman is really the cannibal goblin? When she comes back she willshow herself in her true character and eat me up at one mouthful!"With these words his strength came back to him and, snatching up hishat and staff, he rushed out of the house as fast as his legs couldcarry him. Out into the night he ran, his one thought to get as far ashe could from the goblin's haunt. He had not gone far when he heardsteps behind him and a voice crying: "Stop! stop!"He ran on, redoubling his speed, pretending not to hear. As he ran heheard the steps behind him come nearer and nearer, and at last herecognized the old woman's voice which grew louder and louder as shecame nearer."Stop! stop, you wicked man, why did you look into the forbidden room?"The priest quite forgot how tired he was and his feet flew over theground faster than ever. Fear gave him strength, for he knew that ifthe goblin caught him he would soon be one of her victims. With all hisheart he repeated the prayer to Buddha:"Namu Amida Butsu, Namu Amida Butsu."And after him rushed the dreadful old hag, her hair flying in the wind,and her face changing with rage into the demon that she was. In herhand she carried a large blood stained knife, and she still shriekedafter him, "Stop! stop!"At last, when the priest felt he could run no more, the dawn broke, andwith the darkness of night the goblin vanished and he was safe. Thepriest now knew that he had met the Goblin of Adachigahara, the storyof whom he had often heard but never believed to be true. He felt thathe owed his wonderful escape to the protection of Buddha to whom he hadprayed for help, so he took out his rosary and bowing his head as thesun rose he said his prayers and made his thanksgiving earnestly. Hethen set forward for another part of the country, only too glad toleave the haunted plain behind him.