Once upon a time there was a woman innkeeper who had a daughter.Whenever guests came there they said, "The innkeeper is in truth the most beautiful woman in all the land." But when they saw her daughter they could not take their eyes from her, and they said, "The innkeeper is beautiful, but her daughter is much more beautiful."The innkeeper was proud of her beauty and would liked to have been the most beautiful. It made her ill to hear people say that her daughter was more beautiful than she was. Every day the girl became more and more beautiful until the mother could no longer contain her envy and anger.She hired a man and ordered him to take the girl into the mountains and kill her. As proof he was to bring back her heart. The man took the girl into the mountains and told her what the mother had demanded. The girl wept bitterly, fell to her knees, and begged him to spare her young life. The man was moved and spared her life on the condition that she would go away into foreign lands and never again return home. He brought back a dog's heart to the innkeeper.Sadly the girl went into the wide world, arriving finally in a city where she remained for some time as a servant girl. However, she was always sad, thinking constantly about her homeland and her wicked mother.She could not believe that her mother could be so cruel, and said to herself, "For sure she is filled with regret and now weeps sorrowfully and silently because of my presumed death."Finally she no longer could withstand her longing, and she set forth for her homeland.Her mother received her with angry surprise. The proud woman summoned the man once again and reproved him for his previous disobedience. Once again she told him to take the girl into the mountains and kill her. This time he was to bring back her chopped off hands as proof of her death.The man took the girl into the mountains, and she again fell to her knees and begged him to spare her life. The man was indeed moved, but he feared the innkeeper's anger."What can I do?" he said. "Your mother has demanded that I bring her your hands. I have to obey her."The girl looked painfully toward heaven and said, "I would sooner lose my hands than my life. Chop off my hands, but spare my life!"She laid her hands onto a tree stump, and the horrible thing happened. The man helped her to bind up her bleeding arms, than told her to go far away, making her swear that she never again would return home.In unspeakable pain the girl went far into the dark woods. She prayed that God might heal her and protect her, and her prayer was not in vain. Soon her wounds began to heal, and she found nourishment from herbs, roots, and fruits of the forest. The wild animals did not threaten her life. At first she lived in a cave, but then she found an old willow tree with a rotten inside. With great difficulty and stress she hollowed it out. Here she was better protected against heat, cold, and wild animals. When her wounds pained her, and she despaired over what might become of her, she prayed and wept, and her prayers and tears comforted her.An inner voice cried out to her, "God will not forsake you!" Even the poorest and the most miserable individual who listens to and believes in such a voice will find comfort.One day it happened that the king's son from a somewhat distant city who was hunting in these mountains became separated from his companions. Wandering alone through the woods he suddenly caught sight of the beautiful maiden. At first he thought it was a beautiful, strange animal. Wanting to capture it alive, he did not shoot an arrow at it. When she saw him, she ran away like a deer. He chased after her and saw that she fled into the hollow willow tree. He approached it and commanded her to step outside. To his surprise he saw a beautiful maiden with chopped off hands standing before him."Who are you, my child, and why are you here? Who cut off your hands?"She wept and said nothing.Falling in love with her, he said, "I see that you must have fallen into the hands of wicked people. I will rescue you. Now you shall experience better days. Come with me into the city."Then he blew into his hunting horn, and it sounded through the woods, echoing from the cliffs. Not long afterward his companions and servants approached. They fashioned a litter. The prince lifted the maiden onto it and covered her with his cloak.After arriving at the palace in the city he had rooms made ready for her, then provided her with servants and costly clothing and took care of her in the best possible manner.One day he went to her and asked her if she did not want to become his wife.She blushed and said, "That cannot be."Sadly, he asked her why."How can I, a poor girl without hands become your wife?" she replied. "What would your mother say?""Don't worry about that," he said. "I am my own master and follow my heart's voice, which tells me that you will make me happy. I love you truly and sincerely, even if you cannot love me."Hearing these words, her face turned fire red and her heart beat loudly. She dropped to her knees before him and covered his hands with kisses and hot tears."You are now my bride before God and before the people," he cried with joy. Lifting her up he pressed a kiss onto her pure white forehead. The he went to his mother and explained to her that he wanted to marry the maiden.The mother was a proud woman and for a long time had secretly assumed that her son would marry the world's most beautiful and wealthiest princess. Therefore the prince's proposal made her exceedingly angry."Are you out of your mind?" she shouted at him. "You want to make a vagabond low class girl without hands into my daughter in law and the people's queen?"But the prince remained steadfast. He forced his mother to tame, or at least to hide her anger, and he wed the maiden.The people did not complain. to the contrary, they loved the young queen more and more, for in a short time she did more for them without hands than the old queen had done for them in her entire lifetime with her healthy hands.The couple's happiness lasted only a few months, for war broke out, and the prince had to go to battle with his army. He ordered all his servants to care for his wife and to assure that no harm would come to her. Then he fondly bad her farewell and departed with his army.More months passed by, and the young queen gave birth to two beautiful boys. The old queen was beside herself with anger and would have pulled the children away from her, but the servants, true to their master, kept watch over the young queen and her children, not leaving them alone for even a moment.The old queen sent a trusted messenger to the prince with the claim that his wife had given birth to two children that looked like dogs. The people were revolting, and he therefore should order what was to be done.She believed that her son would give the order to have the young mother and her children killed, but she was wrong. The prince ordered that no one should do anything to his wife or the children until after he had returned home.This angered the old queen all the more, and she sent the same messenger to the prince with the claim that the people were threatening a revolution, and that she therefore saw no other remedy but to publicly burn to death the young mother and her children. And she would have had this done, but the young queen discovered her plan in time. In the middle of the night she took both children into her arms and secretly fled from the palace and from the city."God will not abandon me and my poor little ones!" she thought as she went on her way.She walked until she came to a valley in a forest wilderness. Then two honorable men approached her and asked, "Have these children been baptized?""No," she replied and then told them of her escape and of her difficulties.Then the one man said, "I'll baptize the children. What names shall I give them?""Whatever ones you like," she said."Good," replied the man. "The one shall be named Johannes and the other one Joseph." And he baptized them with the water from the river that flowed through the valley.The two men were none other than Saint Johannes and Saint Joseph themselves.Then the first man said, "Take your children to the far edge of the valley. There you will find a lovely house supplied with everything that you need for yourself and your children. Do not leave the house, and do not open the door for anyone unless he addresses you by the five wounds of our savior."Relieved, she promised this, thanked he men graciously, and went on her way.She than came upon a beautiful woman who looked at her kindly and said, "My poor woman, you have no hands."The young mother wept.The beautiful woman was none other than Saint Mary, and she said, "Stick your arms into the water of this river."She did this, and when she pulled her arms out, she once again had her healthy hands.Weeping with joy she thanked heavenly woman, who then said to her in parting, "Go to that house and faithfully heed what the two saints have told you. Then things will go well for you and your children, for you have always been pious and in your need have trusted in heaven.With a joyful heart she went on her way and found the promised house. There they remained by themselves, for no other human soul was to be found near and far. There she had everything that she needed. The two boys grew and were soon running cheerfully around in the woods. The mother kept her promise, and they were pious and good, praying morning and evening to God that he would bless and protect them.Six years passed. Meanwhile the prince had returned from the wars and had become king. He was always sad, for he often thought about his wife and his children, who he assumed were dead. He had banned his mother from the court.One time he went hunting and lost his way in the woods. Night was approaching and it had begun to storm. Without success he sought shelter beneath the old trees. the wind whipped rain into his face, it thundered without pause, and lightning lit up the entire area. Then he saw the house where his wife and children were living. He knocked on the door, but no one opened it for him. The weather became more and more angry, and lighting struck once again.In great fear he cried out, "By the five wounds of our savior, open the door!"Hearing these words, the queen opened the door and let him enter."Give me shelter for the night," he cried out. "I am dead tired and soaked through."She recognized him immediately. He too thought that this was he wife, and he wanted to cry out with joy, but the sight of her hands told him that he was mistaken, for his wife had no hands.She controlled herself and did not tell him who she was. She led him to the hearth, stirred up the flames, and brought food and drink to him.At first two children did not dare look at the strange man, for until now they had never seen a human being, except for their mother. Finally, encouraged by their mother they shyly approached the stranger, then, snuggled against their mother's arms, they stared at him with wide open eyes, and he looked back with kindness.With tears in his eyes he thought, "My children would be just this age, if they were still alive."The king sat by the fire and dried his clothes. Then sleep overcame him, and he closed his eyes. Seeing that he was asleep, she told her children that this man was their father. Therefore, when he awoke, they should be very friendly toward him. Then it happened that the sleeping king's hat fell off his head to the floor."Johannes," said the mother, "pick up your father's hat."The boy obeyed. The king was half awake and heard what was said."What is this?" he thought to himself. "I'll pretend to be asleep and let my hat fall again."A little later the hat fell to the floor again."Joseph," said the mother, "pick up your father's hat."Hearing this, the king got up and said, "Woman, why do you call me father?"She smiled and said, "Look at me closely!"He broke out in tears and said, "Yes, you look like dear wife, but it is not possible that you are she, for my dear wife had no hands."She cried out, "But it is possible, my beloved husband. God has given me back my hands, and these boys are your children.Then they embraced one another until their hearts almost broke for joy. He took the two boys into his arms and could not stop looking at them and kissing them. all the while tears of joy were running down his cheeks. They stayed together the entire night, telling each other what had happened to them.The next morning he wanted to take her and the boys to the city, but she said, "My dear husband, the saints have commanded that I remain here forever, and I must obey them."He did not object, but kissed her and the boys in parting, and said, "I'll come back to you soon."He returned to the city. There he gave up the crown and the kingship, sold all of his belongings, chose the most faithful of his servants, then returned to his wife and his children. They lived together many long years in that beautiful, peaceful mountain valley. They enjoyed in the largest measure that happiness which mankind can only achieve through sacred peace of mind.