Once upon a time, a tiger was caught in a trap. He tried in vainto get out through the bars, and rolled and bit with rage and grief whenhe failed. By chance a poor Brahman came by."Let me out of this cage, oh pious one!" cried the tiger."Nay, my friend," replied the Brahman mildly, "you would probably eatme if I did.""Not at all!" swore the tiger with many oaths. "On the contrary, Ishould be for ever grateful, and serve you as a slave!"Now when the tiger sobbed and sighed and wept and swore, the piousBrahman's heart softened, and at last he consented to open the door of thecage. Out popped the tiger, and, seizing the poor man, cried, "What a foolyou are! What is to prevent my eating you now, for after being cooped upso long I am just terribly hungry!"In vain the Brahman pleaded for his life. The most he could gain was apromise to abide by the decision of the first three things he chose toquestion as to the justice of the tiger's action.So the Brahman first asked a pipal tree what it thought of thematter, but the pipal tree replied coldly, "What have you tocomplain about? Don't I give shade and shelter to everyone who passes by,and don't they in return tear down my branches to feed their cattle? Don'twhimper. Be a man!"Then the Brahman, sad at heart, went further afield till he saw abuffalo turning a well wheel. But he fared no better from it, for itanswered, "You are a fool to expect gratitude! Look at me! Whilst I gavemilk they fed me on cotton seed and oil cake, but now I am dry they yokeme here and give me refuse as fodder!"The Brahman, still more sad, asked the road to give him itsopinion."My dear sir," said the road, "how foolish you are to expect anythingelse! Here am I, useful to everybody, yet all, rich and poor, great andsmall, trample on me as they go past, giving me nothing but the ashes oftheir pipes and the husks of their grain!"On this the Brahman turned back sorrowfully, and on the way he met ajackal, who called out, "Why, what's the matter, Mr. Brahman? You look asmiserable as a fish out of water!"The Brahman told him all that had occurred. "How very confusing!" saidthe jackal, when the recital was ended. "Would you mind telling me overagain, for everything has got so mixed up?"The Brahman told it all over again, but the jackal shook his head in adistracted sort of way, and still could not understand."It's very odd," said he, sadly, "but it all seems to go in at one earand out at the other! I will go to the place where it all happened, andthen perhaps I shall be able to give a judgment."So they returned to the cage, by which the tiger was waiting for theBrahman, and sharpening his teeth and claws."You've been away a long time!" growled the savage beast, "but now letus begin our dinner."" Our dinner!" thought the wretched Brahman, as his knees knockedtogether with fright. "What a remarkably delicate way of putting it!""Give me five minutes, my lord!" he pleaded, "in order that I mayexplain matters to the jackal here, who is somewhat slow in his wits."The tiger consented, and the Brahman began the whole story over again,not missing a single detail, and spinning as long a yarn as possible."Oh, my poor brain! Oh, my poor brain!" cried the jackal, wringing itspaws. "Let me see! How did it all begin? You were in the cage, and thetiger cam walking by  ""Pooh!" interrupted the tiger, "what a fool you are! I was inthe cage.""Of course!" cried the jackal, pretending to tremble with fright. "Yes!I was in the cage   no I wasn't   dear! dear! where are my wits? Let mesee   the tiger was in the Brahman, and the cage came walking by   no,that's not it, either! Well, don't mind me, but begin your dinner, for Ishall never understand!""Yes, you shall!" returned the tiger, in a rage at the jackal'sstupidity. "I'll make you understand! Look here   I am the tiger ""Yes, my lord!""And that is the Brahman  ""Yes, my lord!""And that is the cage  ""Yes, my lord!""And I was in the cage. Do you understand?""Yes   no   please, my lord  ""Well?" cried the tiger impatiently."Please, my lord! How did you get in?""How! Why in the usual way, of course!""Oh, dear me!   My head is beginning to whirl again! Please don't beangry, my lord, but what is the usual way?"At this the tiger lost patience, and, jumping into the cage, cried,"This way! Now do you understand how it was?""Perfectly!" grinned the jackal, as he dexterously shut the door, "andif you will permit me to say so, I think matters will remain as theywere!"