People said "The Evening Bell is sounding, the sun is setting." For astrange wondrous tone was heard in the narrow streets of a large town.It was like the sound of a church bell: but it was only heard for amoment, for the rolling of the carriages and the voices of the multitudemade too great a noise.Those persons who were walking outside the town, where the houses werefarther apart, with gardens or little fields between them, could seethe evening sky still better, and heard the sound of the bell muchmore distinctly. It was as if the tones came from a church in the stillforest. people looked thitherward, and felt their minds attuned mostsolemnly.A long time passed, and people said to each other "I wonder if thereis a church out in the wood? The bell has a tone that is wondrous sweet.let us stroll thither, and examine the matter nearer." And the richpeople drove out, and the poor walked, but the way seemed strangelylong to them. and when they came to a clump of willows which grew on theskirts of the forest, they sat down, and looked up at the longbranches, and fancied they were now in the depth of the green wood. Theconfectioner of the town came out, and set up his booth there. and soonafter came another confectioner, who hung a bell over his stand, asa sign or ornament, but it had no clapper, and it was tarred over topreserve it from the rain. When all the people returned home, they saidit had been very romantic, and that it was quite a different sort ofthing to a pic nic or tea party. There were three persons who assertedthey had penetrated to the end of the forest, and that they had alwaysheard the wonderful sounds of the bell, but it had seemed to them as ifit had come from the town. One wrote a whole poem about it, and said thebell sounded like the voice of a mother to a good dear child, andthat no melody was sweeter than the tones of the bell. The king of thecountry was also observant of it, and vowed that he who could discoverwhence the sounds proceeded, should have the title of "UniversalBell ringer," even if it were not really a bell.Many persons now went to the wood, for the sake of getting the place,but one only returned with a sort of explanation. for nobody went farenough, that one not further than the others. However, he said thatthe sound proceeded from a very large owl, in a hollow tree. a sort oflearned owl, that continually knocked its head against the branches. Butwhether the sound came from his head or from the hollow tree, that noone could say with certainty. So now he got the place of "UniversalBell ringer," and wrote yearly a short treatise "On the Owl". buteverybody was just as wise as before.It was the day of confirmation. The clergyman had spoken so touchingly,the children who were confirmed had been greatly moved. it wasan eventful day for them. from children they become all at oncegrown up persons. it was as if their infant souls were now to fly allat once into persons with more understanding. The sun was shininggloriously. the children that had been confirmed went out of the town.and from the wood was borne towards them the sounds of the unknown bellwith wonderful distinctness. They all immediately felt a wish to gothither. all except three. One of them had to go home to try on aball dress. for it was just the dress and the ball which had caused herto be confirmed this time, for otherwise she would not have come.the other was a poor boy, who had borrowed his coat and boots to beconfirmed in from the innkeeper's son, and he was to give them back bya certain hour. the third said that he never went to a strange placeif his parents were not with him that he had always been a good boyhitherto, and would still be so now that he was confirmed, and that oneought not to laugh at him for it: the others, however, did make fun ofhim, after all.There were three, therefore, that did not go. the others hastened on.The sun shone, the birds sang, and the children sang too, and each heldthe other by the hand. for as yet they had none of them any high office,and were all of equal rank in the eye of God.But two of the youngest soon grew tired, and both returned to town. twolittle girls sat down, and twined garlands, so they did not go either.and when the others reached the willow tree, where the confectioner was,they said, "Now we are there! In reality the bell does not exist. it isonly a fancy that people have taken into their heads!"At the same moment the bell sounded deep in the wood, so clear andsolemnly that five or six determined to penetrate somewhat further. Itwas so thick, and the foliage so dense, that it was quite fatiguingto proceed. Woodroof and anemonies grew almost too high. bloomingconvolvuluses and blackberry bushes hung in long garlands from tree totree, where the nightingale sang and the sunbeams were playing: it wasvery beautiful, but it was no place for girls to go. their clothes wouldget so torn. Large blocks of stone lay there, overgrown with moss ofevery color. the fresh spring bubbled forth, and made a strange gurglingsound."That surely cannot be the bell," said one of the children, lying downand listening. "This must be looked to." So he remained, and let theothers go on without him.They afterwards came to a little house, made of branches and the bark oftrees. a large wild apple tree bent over it, as if it would shower downall its blessings on the roof, where roses were blooming. The long stemstwined round the gable, on which there hung a small bell.Was it that which people had heard? Yes, everybody was unanimous on thesubject, except one, who said that the bell was too small and too fineto be heard at so great a distance, and besides it was very differenttones to those that could move a human heart in such a manner. It was aking's son who spoke. whereon the others said, "Such people always wantto be wiser than everybody else."They now let him go on alone. and as he went, his breast was filled moreand more with the forest solitude. but he still heard the little bellwith which the others were so satisfied, and now and then, when thewind blew, he could also hear the people singing who were sitting at teawhere the confectioner had his tent. but the deep sound of the bell roselouder. it was almost as if an organ were accompanying it, and the tonescame from the left hand, the side where the heart is placed. A rustlingwas heard in the bushes, and a little boy stood before the King's Son, aboy in wooden shoes, and with so short a jacket that one could see whatlong wrists he had. Both knew each other: the boy was that one amongthe children who could not come because he had to go home and return hisjacket and boots to the innkeeper's son. This he had done, and was nowgoing on in wooden shoes and in his humble dress, for the bell soundedwith so deep a tone, and with such strange power, that proceed he must."Why, then, we can go together," said the King's Son. But the poorchild that had been confirmed was quite ashamed. he looked at his woodenshoes, pulled at the short sleeves of his jacket, and said that he wasafraid he could not walk so fast. besides, he thought that the bell mustbe looked for to the right. for that was the place where all sorts ofbeautiful things were to be found."But there we shall not meet," said the King's Son, nodding at the sametime to the poor boy, who went into the darkest, thickest part of thewood, where thorns tore his humble dress, and scratched his face andhands and feet till they bled. The King's Son got some scratches too.but the sun shone on his path, and it is him that we will follow, for hewas an excellent and resolute youth."I must and will find the bell," said he, "even if I am obliged to go tothe end of the world."The ugly apes sat upon the trees, and grinned. "Shall we thrash him?"said they. "Shall we thrash him? He is the son of a king!"But on he went, without being disheartened, deeper and deeper into thewood, where the most wonderful flowers were growing. There stood whitelilies with blood red stamina, skyblue tulips, which shone as they wavedin the winds, and apple trees, the apples of which looked exactly likelarge soapbubbles: so only think how the trees must have sparkled in thesunshine! Around the nicest green meads, where the deer were playing inthe grass, grew magnificent oaks and beeches. and if the bark of one ofthe trees was cracked, there grass and long creeping plants grew inthe crevices. And there were large calm lakes there too, in which whiteswans were swimming, and beat the air with their wings. The King's Sonoften stood still and listened. He thought the bell sounded from thedepths of these still lakes. but then he remarked again that the toneproceeded not from there, but farther off, from out the depths of theforest.The sun now set: the atmosphere glowed like fire. It was still in thewoods, so very still. and he fell on his knees, sung his evening hymn,and said: "I cannot find what I seek. the sun is going down, and nightis coming the dark, dark night. Yet perhaps I may be able once moreto see the round red sun before he entirely disappears. I will climb upyonder rock."And he seized hold of the creeping plants, and the roots oftrees climbed up the moist stones where the water snakes were writhingand the toads were croaking and he gained the summit before the sunhad quite gone down. How magnificent was the sight from this height! Thesea the great, the glorious sea, that dashed its long waves against thecoast was stretched out before him. And yonder, where sea and sky meet,stood the sun, like a large shining altar, all melted together in themost glowing colors. And the wood and the sea sang a song of rejoicing,and his heart sang with the rest: all nature was a vast holy church,in which the trees and the buoyant clouds were the pillars, flowers andgrass the velvet carpeting, and heaven itself the large cupola. The redcolors above faded away as the sun vanished, but a million stars werelighted, a million lamps shone. and the King's Son spread out his armstowards heaven, and wood, and sea. when at the same moment, coming bya path to the right, appeared, in his wooden shoes and jacket, the poorboy who had been confirmed with him. He had followed his own path, andhad reached the spot just as soon as the son of the king had done. Theyran towards each other, and stood together hand in hand in the vastchurch of nature and of poetry, while over them sounded the invisibleholy bell: blessed spirits floated around them, and lifted up theirvoices in a rejoicing hallelujah!