From Sicilianische Mahrchen.Once upon a time there lived a man who had three sons. The eldest wascalled Peppe, the second Alfin, and the youngest Ciccu. They were allvery poor, and at last things got so bad that they really had not enoughto eat. So the father called his sons, and said to them, ' My dear boys,I am too old to work any more, and there is nothing left for me but tobeg in the streets.''No, no!' exclaimed his sons. 'that you shall never do. Rather, if itmust be, would we do it ourselves. But we have thought of a better planthan that.''What is it?' asked the father.'Well, we will take you in the forest, where you shall cut wood, andthen we will bind it up in bundles and sell it in the town.' So theirfather let them do as they said, and they all made their way into theforest. and as the old man was weak from lack of food his sons took itin turns to carry him on their backs. Then they built a little hut wherethey might take shelter, and set to work. Every morning early the fathercut his sticks, and the sons bound them in bundles, and carried them tothe town, bringing back the food the old man so much needed.Some months passed in this way, and then the father suddenly fell ill,and knew that the time had come when he must die. He bade his sons fetcha lawyer, so that he might make his will, and when the man arrived heexplained his wishes.'I have,' said he, 'a little house in the village, and over it grows afig tree. The house I leave to my sons, who are to live in it together.the fig tree I divide as follows. To my son Peppe I leave the branches.To my son Alfin I leave the trunk. To my son Ciccu I leave the fruit.Besides the house and tree, I have an old coverlet, which I leave tomy eldest son. And an old purse, which I leave to my second son. And ahorn, which I leave to my youngest son. And now farewell.'Thus speaking, he laid himself down, and died quietly. The brothers weptbitterly for their father, whom they loved, and when they had buried himthey began to talk over their future lives. 'What shall we do now?' saidthey. 'Shall we live in the wood, or go back to the village?' And theymade up their minds to stay where they were and continue to earn theirliving by selling firewood.One very hot evening, after they had been working hard all day, theyfell asleep under a tree in front of the hut. And as they slept therecame by three fairies, who stopped to look at them.'What fine fellows!' said one. 'Let us give them a present.''Yes, what shall it be?' asked another.'This youth has a coverlet over him,' said the first fairy. 'Whenhe wraps it round him, and wishes himself in any place, he will findhimself there in an instant.'Then said the second fairy: 'This youth has a purse in his hand. I willpromise that it shall always give him as much gold as he asks for.'Last came the turn of the third fairy. 'This one has a horn slung roundhim. When he blows at the small end the seas shall be covered withships. And if he blows at the wide end they shall all be sunk in thewaves.' So they vanished, without knowing that Ciccu had been awake andheard all they said.The next day, when they were all cutting wood, he said to his brothers,'That old coverlet and the purse are no use to you. I wish you wouldgive them to me. I have a fancy for them, for the sake of old times.'Now Peppe and Alfin were very fond of Ciccu, and never refused himanything, so they let him have the coverlet and the purse without aword. When he had got them safely Ciccu went on, 'Dear brothers, Iam tired of the forest. I want to live in the town, and work at sometrade.''O Ciccu! stay with us,' they cried. 'We are very happy here. and whoknows how we shall get on elsewhere?''We can always try,' answered Ciccu. 'and if times are bad we can comeback here and take up wood cutting.' So saying he picked up his bundleof sticks, and his brothers did the same.But when they reached the town they found that the market wasoverstocked with firewood, and they did not sell enough to buythemselves a dinner, far less to get any food to carry home. They werewondering sadly what they should do when Ciccu said, 'Come with me tothe inn and let us have something to eat.' They were so hungry by thistime that they did not care much whether they paid for it or not, sothey followed Ciccu, who gave his orders to the host. 'Bring us threedishes, the nicest that you have, and a good bottle of wine.''Ciccu! Ciccu!' whispered his brothers, horrified at this extravagance,'are you mad? How do you ever mean to pay for it?''Let me alone,' replied Ciccu. 'I know what I am about.' And when theyhad finished their dinner Ciccu told the others to go on, and he wouldwait to pay the bill.The brothers hurried on, without needing to be told twice, 'for,'thought they, 'he has no money, and of course there will be a row.'When they were out of sight Ciccu asked the landlord how much he owed,and then said to his purse, 'Dear purse, give me, I pray you, sixflorins,' and instantly six florins were in the purse. Then he paid thebill and joined his brothers.'How did you manage?' they asked.'Never you mind,' answered he. 'I have paid every penny,' and no morewould he say. But the other two were very uneasy, for they felt suresomething must be wrong, and the sooner they parted company with Ciccuthe better. Ciccu understood what they were thinking, and, drawing fortygold pieces from his pocket, he held out twenty to each, saying, 'Takethese and turn them to good account. I am going away to seek my ownfortune.' Then he embraced them, and struck down another road.He wandered on for many days, till at length he came to the town wherethe king had his court. The first thing Ciccu did was to order himselfsome fine clothes, and then buy a grand house, just opposite the palace.Next he locked his door, and ordered a shower of gold to cover thestaircase, and when this was done, the door was flung wide open, andeveryone came and peeped at the shining golden stairs. Lastly the rumourof these wonders reached the ears of the king, who left his palace tobehold these splendours with his own eyes. And Ciccu received him withall respect, and showed him over the house.When the king went home he told such stories of what he had seen thathis wife and daughter declared that they must go and see them too. Sothe king sent to ask Ciccu's leave, and Ciccu answered that if the queenand the princess would be pleased to do him such great honour he wouldshow them anything they wished. Now the princess was as beautiful as thesun, and when Ciccu looked upon her his heart went out to her, and helonged to have her to wife. The princess saw what was passing in hismind, and how she could make use of it to satisfy her curiosity as tothe golden stairs. so she praised him and flattered him, and put cunningquestions, till at length Ciccu's head was quite turned, and he told herthe whole story of the fairies and their gifts. Then she begged him tolend her the purse for a few days, so that she could have one made likeit, and so great was the love he had for her that he gave it to her atonce.The princess returned to the palace, taking with her the purse, whichshe had not the smallest intention of ever restoring to Ciccu. Verysoon Ciccu had spent all the money he had by him, and could get no morewithout the help of his purse. Of course, he went at once to the king'sdaughter, and asked her if she had done with it, but she put him offwith some excuse, and told him to come back next day. The next day itwas the same thing, and the next, till a great rage filled Ciccu's heartinstead of the love that had been there. And when night came he tookin his hand a thick stick, wrapped himself in the coverlet, and wishedhimself in the chamber of the princess. The princess was asleep, butCiccu seized her arm and pulled her out of bed, and beat her till shegave back the purse. Then he took up the coverlet, and wished he wassafe in his own house.No sooner had he gone than the princess hastened to her father andcomplained of her sufferings. Then the king rose up in a fury, andcommanded Ciccu to be brought before him. 'You richly deserve death,'said he, 'but I will allow you to live if you will instantly hand overto me the coverlet, the purse, and the horn.'What could Ciccu do? Life was sweet, and he was in the power of theking. so he gave up silently his ill gotten goods, and was as poor aswhen he was a boy.While he was wondering how he was to live it suddenly came into his mindthat this was the season for the figs to ripen, and he said to himself,'I will go and see if the tree has borne well.' So he set offhome, where his brothers still lived, and found them living veryuncomfortably, for they had spent all their money, and did not knowhow to make any more. However, he was pleased to see that the fig treelooked in splendid condition, and was full of fruit. He ran and fetcheda basket, and was just feeling the figs, to make sure which of them wereripe, when his brother Peppe called to him, 'Stop! The figs of courseare yours, but the branches they grow on are mine, and I forbid you totouch them.'Ciccu did not answer, but set a ladder against the tree, so that hecould reach the topmost branches, and had his foot already on the firstrung when he heard the voice of his brother Alfin: 'Stop! the trunkbelongs to me, and I forbid you to touch it!'Then they began to quarrel violently, and there seemed no chance thatthey would ever cease, till one of them said, 'Let us go before ajudge.' The others agreed, and when they had found a man whom they couldtrust Ciccu told him the whole story.'This is my verdict,' said the judge. 'The figs in truth belong toyou, but you cannot pluck them without touching both the trunk and thebranches. Therefore you must give your first basketful to your brotherPeppe, as the price of his leave to put your ladder against the tree.and the second basketful to your brother Alfin, for leave to shake hisboughs. The rest you can keep for yourself.'And the brothers were contented, and returned home, saying one to theother, 'We will each of us send a basket of figs to the king. Perhapshe will give us something in return, and if he does we will divide itfaithfully between us.' So the best figs were carefully packed in abasket, and Peppe set out with it to the castle.On the road he met a little old man who stopped and said to him, 'Whathave you got there, my fine fellow?''What is that to you?' was the answer. 'mind your own business.' Butthe old man only repeated his question, and Peppe, to get rid of him,exclaimed in anger, 'Dirt.''Good,' replied the old man. 'dirt you have said, and dirt let it be.'Peppe only tossed his head and went on his way till he got to thecastle, where he knocked at the door. 'I have a basket of lovely figsfor the king,' he said to the servant who opened it, 'if his majestywill be graciously pleased to accept them with my humble duty.'The king loved figs, and ordered Peppe to be admitted to his presence,and a silver dish to be brought on which to put the figs. When Peppeuncovered his basket sure enough a layer of beautiful purple figs metthe king's eyes, but underneath there was nothing but dirt. 'How dareyou play me such a trick?' shrieked the king in a rage. 'Take him away,and give him fifty lashes.' This was done, and Peppe returned home, soreand angry, but determined to say nothing about his adventure. And whenhis brothers asked him what had happened he only answered, 'When we haveall three been I will tell you.'A few days after this more figs were ready for plucking, and Alfinin his turn set out for the palace. He had not gone far down the roadbefore he met the old man, who asked him what he had in his basket.'Horns,' answered Alfin, shortly.'Good,' replied the old man. 'horns you have said, and horns let it be.'When Alfin reached the castle he knocked at the door and said to theservant: 'Here is a basket of lovely figs, if his majesty will be goodenough to accept them with my humble duty.'The king commanded that Alfin should be admitted to his presence, and asilver dish to be brought on which to lay the figs. When the basketwas uncovered some beautiful purple figs lay on the top, but underneaththere was nothing but horns. Then the king was beside himself withpassion, and screamed out, 'Is this a plot to mock me? Take him away,and give him a hundred and fifty lashes!' So Alfin went sadly home, butwould not tell anything about his adventures, only saying grimly, 'Nowit is Ciccu's turn.'Ciccu had to wait a little before he gathered the last figs on the tree,and these were not nearly so good as the first set. However, he pluckedthem, as they had agreed, and set out for the king's palace. The old manwas still on the road, and he came up and said to Ciccu, 'What have yougot in that basket?''Figs for the king,' answered he.'Let me have a peep,' and Ciccu lifted the lid. 'Oh, do give me one, Iam so fond of figs,' begged the little man.'I am afraid if I do that the hole will show,' replied Ciccu, but as hewas very good natured he gave him one. The old man ate it greedily andkept the stalk in his hand, and then asked for another and another andanother till he had eaten half the basketful. 'But there are not enoughleft to take to the king,' murmured Ciccu.'Don't be anxious,' said the old man, throwing the stalks back intothe basket. 'just go on and carry the basket to the castle, and it willbring you luck.'Ciccu did not much like it. however he went on his way, and with atrembling heart rang the castle bell. 'Here are some lovely figs forthe king,' said he, 'if his majesty will graciously accept them with myhumble duty.'When the king was told that there was another man with a basket of figshe cried out, 'Oh, have him in, have him in! I suppose it is a wager!'But Ciccu uncovered the basket, and there lay a pile of beautiful ripefigs. And the king was delighted, and emptied them himself on the silverdish, and gave five florins to Ciccu, and offered besides to take himinto his service. Ciccu accepted gratefully, but said he must firstreturn home and give the five florins to his brothers.When he got home Peppe spoke: 'Now we will see what we each have gotfrom the king. I myself received from him fifty lashes.''And I a hundred and fifty,' added Alfin.'And I five florins and some sweets, which you can divide between you,for the king has taken me into his service.' Then Ciccu went back to theCourt and served the king, and the king loved him.The other two brothers heard that Ciccu had become quite an importantperson, and they grew envious, and thought how they could put him toshame. At last they came to the king and said to him, 'O king! yourpalace is beautiful indeed, but to be worthy of you it lacks onething the sword of the Man eater.''How can I get it?' asked the king.'Oh, Ciccu can get it for you. ask him.'So the king sent for Ciccu and said to him, 'Ciccu, you must at anyprice manage to get the sword of the Man eater.'Ciccu was very much surprised at this sudden command, and he walkedthoughtfully away to the stables and began to stroke his favouritehorse, saying to himself, 'Ah, my pet, we must bid each other good bye,for the king has sent me away to get the sword of the Maneater.' Nowthis horse was not like other horses, for it was a talking horse, andknew a great deal about many things, so it answered, 'Fear nothing, anddo as I tell you. Beg the king to give you fifty gold pieces and leaveto ride me, and the rest will be easy.' Ciccu believed what the horsesaid, and prayed the king to grant him what he asked. Then the twofriends set out, but the horse chose what roads he pleased, and directedCiccu in everything.It took them many days' hard riding before they reached the countrywhere the Man eater lived, and then the horse told Ciccu to stop a groupof old women who were coming chattering through the wood, and offer themeach a shilling if they would collect a number of mosquitos and tiethem up in a bag. When the bag was full Ciccu put it on his shoulderand stole into the house of the Man eater (who had gone to look for hisdinner) and let them all out in his bedroom. He himself hid carefullyunder the bed and waited. The Man eater came in late, very tired withhis long walk, and flung himself on the bed, placing his sword with itsshining blade by his side. Scarcely had he lain down than the mosquitosbegan to buzz about and bite him, and he rolled from side to side tryingto catch them, which he never could do, though they always seemed tobe close to his nose. He was so busy over the mosquitos that he didnot hear Ciccu steal softly out, or see him catch up the sword. But thehorse heard and stood ready at the door, and as Ciccu came flying downthe stairs and jumped on his back he sped away like the wind, and neverstopped till they arrived at the king's palace.The king had suffered much pain in his absence, thinking that if theMan eater ate Ciccu, it would be all his fault. And he was so overjoyedto have him safe that he almost forgot the sword which he had sent himto bring. But the two brothers did not love Ciccu any better becausehe had succeeded when they hoped he would have failed, and one day theyspoke to the king. 'It is all very well for Ciccu to have got possessionof the sword, but it would have been far more to your majesty's honourif he had captured the Man eater himself.' The king thought upon thesewords, and at last he said to Ciccu, 'Ciccu, I shall never rest untilyou bring me back the Man eater himself. You may have any help you like,but somehow or other you must manage to do it.' Ciccu felt very muchcast, down at these words, and went to the stable to ask advice of hisfriend the horse. 'Fear nothing,' said the horse. 'just say you want meand fifty pieces of gold.' Ciccu did as he was bid, and the two set outtogether.When they reached the country of the Man eater, Ciccu made all thechurch bells toll and a proclamation to be made. 'Ciccu, the servant ofthe king, is dead.' The Man eater soon heard what everyone was saying,and was glad in his heart, for he thought, 'Well, it is good news thatthe thief who stole my sword is dead.' But Ciccu bought an axe and asaw, and cut down a pine tree in the nearest wood, and began to hew itinto planks.'What are you doing in my wood?' asked the Maneater, coming up.'Noble lord,' answered Ciccu, 'I am making a coffin for the body ofCiccu, who is dead.''Don't be in a hurry,' answered the Man eater, who of course did notknow whom he was talking to, 'and perhaps I can help you.' and they setto work sawing and fitting, and very soon the coffin was finished.Then Ciccu scratched his ear thoughtfully, and cried, 'Idiot that I am!I never took any measures. How am I to know if it is big enough? But nowI come to think of it, Ciccu was about your size. I wonder if you wouldbe so good as just to put yourself in the coffin, and see if there isenough room.''Oh, delighted!' said the Man eater, and laid himself at full length inthe coffin. Ciccu clapped on the lid, put a strong cord round it, tiedit fast on his horse, and rode back to the king. And when the king sawthat he really had brought back the Man eater, he commanded a huge ironchest to be brought, and locked the coffin up inside.Just about this time the queen died, and soon after the king thought heshould like to marry again. He sought everywhere, but he could not hearof any princess that took his fancy. Then the two envious brothers cameto him and said, 'O king! there is but one woman that is worthy of beingyour wife, and that is she who is the fairest in the whole world.''But where can I find her?' asked the king'Oh, Ciccu will know, and he will bring her to you.'Now the king had got so used to depending on Ciccu, that he reallybelieved he could do everything. So he sent for him and said, 'Ciccu,unless within eight days you bring me the fairest in the whole world, Iwill have you hewn into a thousand pieces.' This mission seemed to Ciccua hundred times worse than either of the others, and with tears in hiseyes he took his way to the stables.'Cheer up,' laughed the horse. 'tell the king you must have some breadand honey, and a purse of gold, and leave the rest to me.'Ciccu did as he was bid, and they started at a gallop.After they had ridden some way, they saw a swarm of bees lying on theground, so hungry and weak that they were unable to fly. 'Get down, andgive the poor things some honey,' said the horse, and Ciccu dismounted.By and bye they came to a stream, on the bank of which was a fish,flapping feebly about in its efforts to reach the water. 'Jump down, andthrow the fish into the water. he will be useful to us,' and Ciccu didso. Farther along the hillside they saw an eagle whose leg was caughtin a snare. 'Go and free that eagle from the snare. he will be useful tous. ' and in a moment the eagle was soaring up into the sky.At length they came to the castle where the fairest in the world livedwith her parents. Then said the horse, 'You must get down and sit uponthat stone, for I must enter the castle alone. Directly you see me cometearing by with the princess on my back, jump up behind, and hold hertight, so that she does not escape you. If you fail to do this, we areboth lost.' Ciccu seated himself on the stone, and the horse went on tothe courtyard of the castle, where he began to trot round in a gracefuland elegant manner. Soon a crowd collected first to watch him and thento pat him, and the king and queen and princess came with the rest.The eyes of the fairest in the world brightened as she looked, and shesprang on the horse's saddle, crying, 'Oh, I really must ride him alittle!' But the horse made one bound forward, and the princess wasforced to hold tight by his mane, lest she should fall off. And as theydashed past the stone where Ciccu was waiting for them, he swung himselfup and held her round the waist. As he put his arms round her waist, thefairest in the world unwound the veil from her head and cast it to theground, and then she drew a ring from her finger and flung it into thestream. But she said nothing, and they rode on fast, fast.The king of Ciccu's country was watching for them from the top of atower, and when he saw in the distance a cloud of dust, he ran downto the steps so as to be ready to receive them. Bowing low before thefairest in the world, he spoke: 'Noble lady, will you do me the honourto become my wife?'But she answered, 'That can only be when Ciccu brings me the veil that Ilet fall on my way here.'And the king turned to Ciccu and said, 'Ciccu, if you do not find theveil at once, you shall lose your head.'Ciccu, who by this time had hoped for a little peace, felt his heartsink at this fresh errand, and he went into the stable to complain tothe faithful horse.'It will be all right,' answered the horse when he had heard his tale.'just take enough food for the day for both of us, and then get on myback.'They rode back all the way they had come till they reached the placewhere they had found the eagle caught in the snare. then the horse badeCiccu to call three times on the king of the birds, and when he replied,to beg him to fetch the veil which the fairest in the world had letfall.'Wait a moment,' answered a voice that seemed to come from somewherevery high up indeed. 'An eagle is playing with it just now, but he willbe here with it in an instant.' and a few minutes after there was asound of wings, and an eagle came fluttering towards them with the veilin his beak. And Ciccu saw it was the very same eagle that he had freedfrom the snare. So he took the veil and rode back to the king.Now the king was enchanted to see him so soon, and took the veil fromCiccu and flung it over the princess, crying, 'Here is the veil youasked for, so I claim you for my wife.''Not so fast,' answered she. 'I can never be your wife till Ciccu putson my finger the ring I threw into the stream. Ciccu, who was standingby expecting something of the sort, bowed his head when he heard herwords, and went straight to the horse.'Mount at once,' said the horse. 'this time it is very simple,' and hecarried Ciccu to the banks of the little stream. 'Now, call three timeson the emperor of the fishes, and beg him to restore you the ring thatthe princess dropped.Ciccu did as the horse told him, and a voice was heard in answer thatseemed to come from a very long way off.'What is your will?' it asked. and Ciccu replied that he had beencommanded to bring back the ring that the princess had flung away, asshe rode past.'A fish is playing with it just now,' replied the voice. 'however, youshall have it without delay.'And sure enough, very soon a little fish was seen rising to the surfacewith the lost ring in his mouth. And Ciccu knew him to be the fish thathe had saved from death, and he took the ring and rode back with it tothe king.'That is not enough,' exclaimed the princess when she saw the ring.'before we can be man and wife, the oven must be heated for three daysand three nights, and Ciccu must jump in.' And the king forgot how Ciccuhad served him, and desired him to do as the princess had said.This time Ciccu felt that no escape was possible, and he went to thehorse and laid his hand on his neck. 'Now it is indeed good bye, andthere is no help to be got even from you,' and he told him what fateawaited him.But the horse said, 'Oh, never lose heart, but jump on my back, and makeme go till the foam flies in flecks all about me. Then get down, andscrape off the foam with a knife. This you must rub all over you, andwhen you are quite covered, you may suffer yourself to be cast into theoven, for the fire will not hurt you, nor anything else.' And Ciccu didexactly as the horse bade him, and went back to the king, and before theeyes of the fairest in the world he sprang into the oven.And when the fairest in the world saw what he had done, love enteredinto her heart, and she said to the king, 'One thing more: before I canbe your wife, you must jump into the oven as Ciccu has done.''Willingly,' replied the king, stooping over the oven. But on the brinkhe paused a moment and called to Ciccu, 'Tell me, Ciccu, how did youmanage to prevent the fire burning you?'Now Ciccu could not forgive his master, whom he had served sofaithfully, for sending him to his death without a thought, so heanswered, 'I rubbed myself over with fat, and I am not even singed.'When he heard these words, the king, whose head was full of theprincess, never stopped to inquire if they could be true, and smearedhimself over with fat, and sprang into the oven. And in a moment thefire caught him, and he was burned up.Then the fairest in the world held out her hand to Ciccu and smiled,saying, 'Now we will be man and wife.' So Ciccu married the fairest inthe world, and became king of the country.