Once upon a time there was a wee wee Lambikin, who frolicked about onhis little tottery legs, and enjoyed himself amazingly.Now one day he set off to visit his Granny, and was jumping with joyto think of all the good things he should get from her, when whoshould he meet but a Jackal, who looked at the tender young morsel andsaid: "Lambikin! Lambikin! I'll EAT YOU!"But Lambikin only gave a little frisk and said:"To Granny's house I go,Where I shall fatter grow,Then you can eat me so."The Jackal thought this reasonable, and let Lambikin pass.By and by he met a Vulture, and the Vulture, looking hungrily at thetender morsel before him, said: "Lambikin! Lambikin! I'll EAT YOU!"But Lambikin only gave a little frisk, and said:"To Granny's house I go,Where I shall fatter grow,Then you can eat me so."The Vulture thought this reasonable, and let Lambikin pass.And by and by he met a Tiger, and then a Wolf, and a Dog, and anEagle, and all these, when they saw the tender little morsel, said:"Lambikin! Lambikin! I'll EAT YOU!"But to all of them Lambikin replied, with a little frisk:"To Granny's house I go,Where I shall fatter grow,Then you can eat me so."At last he reached his Granny's house, and said, all in a great hurry,"Granny, dear, I've promised to get very fat. so, as people ought tokeep their promises, please put me into the corn bin _at once_."So his Granny said he was a good boy, and put him into the corn bin,and there the greedy little Lambikin stayed for seven days, and ate,and ate, and ate, until he could scarcely waddle, and his Granny saidhe was fat enough for anything, and must go home. But cunning littleLambikin said that would never do, for some animal would be sure toeat him on the way back, he was so plump and tender."I'll tell you what you must do," said Master Lambikin, "you must makea little drumikin out of the skin of my little brother who died, andthen I can sit inside and trundle along nicely, for I'm as tight as adrum myself."So his Granny made a nice little drumikin out of his brother's skin,with the wool inside, and Lambikin curled himself up snug and warm inthe middle, and trundled away gaily. Soon he met with the Eagle, whocalled out:"Drumikin! Drumikin!Have you seen Lambikin?"And Mr. Lambikin, curled up in his soft warm nest, replied:"Fallen into the fire, and so will youOn little Drumikin. Tum pa, tum too!""How very annoying!" sighed the Eagle, thinking regretfully of thetender morsel he had let slip.Meanwhile Lambikin trundled along, laughing to himself, and singing:"Tum pa, tum too.Tum pa, tum too!"Every animal and bird he met asked him the same question:"Drumikin! Drumikin!Have you seen Lambikin?"And to each of them the little slyboots replied:"Fallen into the fire, and so will youOn little Drumikin. Tum pa, tum too.Tum pa, tum too. Tum pa, tum too!"Then they all sighed to think of the tender little morsel they had letslip.At last the Jackal came limping along, for all his sorry looks assharp as a needle, and he too called out "Drumikin! Drumikin!Have you seen Lambikin?"And Lambikin, curled up in his snug little nest, replied gaily:"Fallen into the fire, and so will youOn little Drumikin! Tum pa  "But he never got any further, for the Jackal recognised his voice atonce, and cried: "Hullo! you've turned yourself inside out, have you?Just you come out of that!"Whereupon he tore open Drumikin and gobbled up Lambikin.