(29) From the Bukowniaer. Van Wliolocki.There was once upon a time a couple who had no children, and they prayedHeaven every day to send them a child, though it were no bigger thana hazel nut. At last Heaven heard their prayer and sent them a childexactly the size of a hazel nut, and it never grew an inch. The parentswere very devoted to the little creature, and nursed and tended itcarefully. Their tiny son too was as clever as he could be, and so sharpand sensible that all the neighbours marvelled over the wise things hesaid and did.When the Hazel nut child was fifteen years old, and was sitting one dayin an egg shell on the table beside his mother, she turned to him andsaid, 'You are now fifteen years old, and nothing can be done with you.What do you intend to be?''A messenger,' answered the Hazel nut child.Then his mother burst out laughing and said, 'What an idea! You amessenger! Why, your little feet would take an hour to go the distancean ordinary person could do in a minute!'But the Hazel nut child replied, 'Nevertheless I mean to be a messenger!Just send me a message and you'll see that I shall be back in next to notime.'So his mother said, 'Very well, go to your aunt in the neighbouringvillage, and fetch me a comb.' The Hazel nut child jumped quickly outof the egg shell and ran out into the street. Here he found a man onhorseback who was just setting out for the neighbouring village. Hecrept up the horse's leg, sat down under the saddle, and then began topinch the horse and to prick it with a pin. The horse plunged and rearedand then set off at a hard gallop, which it continued in spite of itsrider's efforts to stop it. When they reached the village, the Hazel nutchild left off pricking the horse, and the poor tired creature pursuedits way at a snail's pace. The Hazel nut child took advantage of this,and crept down the horse's leg. then he ran to his aunt and asked herfor a comb. On the way home he met another rider, and did the returnjourney in exactly the same way. When he handed his mother the comb thathis aunt had given him, she was much amazed and asked him, 'But how didyou manage to get back so quickly?''Ah! mother,' he replied, 'you see I was quite right when I said I knewa messenger was the profession for me.'His father too possessed a horse which he often used to take out intothe fields to graze. One day he took the Hazel nut child with him. Atmidday the father turned to his small son and said, 'Stay here and lookafter the horse. I must go home and give your mother a message, but Ishall be back soon.'When his father had gone, a robber passed by and saw the horse grazingwithout any one watching it, for of course he could not see theHazel nut child hidden in the grass. So he mounted the horse and rodeaway. But the Hazel nut child, who was the most active little creature,climbed up the horse's tail and began to bite it on the back, enragingthe creature to such an extent that it paid no attention to thedirection the robber tried to make it go in, but galloped straight home.The father was much astonished when he saw a stranger riding his horse,but the Hazel nut child climbed down quickly and told him all that hadhappened, and his father had the robber arrested at once and put intoprison.One autumn when the Hazel nut child was twenty years old he said to hisparents: 'Farewell, my dear father and mother. I am going to set outinto the world, and as soon as I have become rich I will return home toyou.'The parents laughed at the little man's words, but did not believe himfor a moment. In the evening the Hazel nut child crept on to the roof,where some storks had built their nest. The storks were fast asleep,and he climbed on to the back of the father stork and bound a silk cordround the joint of one of its wings, then he crept among its soft downyfeathers and fell asleep.The next morning the storks flew towards the south, for winter wasapproaching. The Hazel nut child flew through the air on the stork'sback, and when he wanted to rest he bound his silk cord on to the jointof the bird's other wing, so that it could not fly any farther. In thisway he reached the country of the black people, where the storks tookup their abode close to the capital. When the people saw the Hazel nutchild they were much astonished, and took him with the stork to the Kingof the country. The King was delighted with the little creature and kepthim always beside him, and he soon grew so fond of the little man thathe gave him a diamond four times as big as himself. The Hazel nut childfastened the diamond firmly under the stork's neck with a ribbon, andwhen he saw that the other storks were getting ready for their northernflight, he untied the silk cord from his stork's wings, and away theywent, getting nearer home every minute. At length the Hazel nut childcame to his native village. then he undid the ribbon from the stork'sneck and the diamond fell to the ground. he covered it first with sandand stones, and then ran to get his parents, so that they might carrythe treasure home, for he himself was not able to lift the greatdiamond.So the Hazel nut child and his parents lived in happiness and prosperityafter this till they died.