Once upon a time there was a peasant family who had a watchdog namedSultan among their household animals. The dog grew old, and, thinking thathe could no longer properly attend to to his duties, the peasant chasedhim away. Dejected and with his head hanging low, the dog left thevillage, complaining to himself, "So this is my reward for loyalty at adifficult job. After using up my youthful and energetic years at work,they chase me away and grant me no rest now that I am old and weak."He sadly went his way, wandering aimlessly about for many days withoutfinding any tolerable shelter. Emaciated and weak from his long journey,he came to a forest. A wolf came out of the forest, ran up to the poordog, and cried, "Stop, old fellow! Beware, you are now in my power."Hearing the wolf speak in this manner, the frightened old Sultan said,"Dear friend, just take a good look at me, and your appetite for me willdisappear. I would make the worst roast you have ever had, for I amnothing but skin and bones. But I do have some advice for you."The wolf said, "I don't need any advice from you, you miserablecreature. I know what you will say even before you speak, namely that Ishould let you live. No, I won't change my mind. The long and the short ofit is that I am going to eat you."To this the dog answered, "I wouldn't think of asking that of you, forI do not want to live any longer. Bite away as long as you want to. But Istill have good advice for you. Wouldn't it be better to fatten me upbefore eating me? You wouldn't loose anything on the feed, because youwould get it all back on me. Then I'd make a decent roast. What do youthink, Brother Wolf?"The wolf spoke, "I'll do it, if the feeding doesn't take too long.Follow me to my hut."The dog did this, and together they went deeper into the woods.Arriving at the hut, Sultan crept inside, while the wolf went forth tohunt some game for the weak dog. When he returned, he threw his capture toSultan, who ate it with relish.The next day the wolf came and spoke to the dog, "Yesterday you ate.Today I will eat."The dog replied, "What are you thinking of, dear wolf? I scarcely feltyesterday's food in my stomach."To be sure, this irritated the wolf, but he had to be happy with goinginto the woods again to hunt game for the dog. With similar responses, ourSultan put off the wolf as long as he was not strong enough to take on thewolf. The wolf continued to hunt and to bring the dog whatever hecaptured, eating little or nothing himself so that Sultan would haveenough. Thus the dog grew ever stronger, while the opposite was true forthe wolf.On the sixth day the wolf came to the dog and spoke, "I believe thatyou are ready now."Sultan answered, "Yes indeed. To be sure, I feel so well that I willtake you on unless you set me free."The wolf spoke, "You are joking! Just think, I have been feeding youfor six days now, while eating nothing myself. Now am I to go away withnothing? That will never do!"To this Sultan responded, "You are partially right, but does that giveyou the right to eat me up?""That is the right of the strong over the weak," answered the wolf."Right on!" replied the dog. "And thus you have pronounced judgment onyourself." With these words he made a daring leap, and before the wolfknew it, he was lying on the ground, overpowered by Sultan."Because you allowed me to live, I will not kill you immediately, butrather submit your life to fate. Choose two companions, and I will do thesame. Tomorrow come to this place in the woods with them, and we willsettle our dispute."The two separated to seek out their fellow warriors. Angrily, the wolfwent deeper into the woods. The dog hurried to the nearest village. Aftermuch pleading, the wolf got an ill tempered, grumbling bear and a sly foxto be his comrades.Our Sultan ran first to the parsonage, where he talked a large gray catinto going with him. Then he went to the town judge's barnyard where hefound a brave rooster as a second fellow warrior.It was just getting light, and the dog was already underway with histwo companions. They had what they needed. He might even surprise hisenemies while they were still deep in sleep.The wolf was the first one to awaken. He woke his comrades, then saidto the bear, "You can climb trees, can't you? Be so good as to climb thattall fir tree and see if you can't get a glimpse of our enemies."The bear did this, and from the top of the tree he cried down, "Flee!Our enemies are very near, and what powerful enemies they are! One of themis riding proudly along, carrying many sharp sabers. They glisten stronglyin the morning sun. Another one is walking stealthily after him, pulling along iron rod behind. Woe unto us!"The fox was so frightened at these words, that he decided it would beadvisable to make himself scarce. The bear hurriedly climbed down from thetree and crept into some thick brush, so that only the tip of his tail wasshowing.The enemy was now at hand. The wolf, seeing that his friends haddeserted him, tried to get away, but Sultan confronted him. One leap, andthe dog had the wolf by the back of his neck, and he finished him off.Meanwhile, the cat noticed the tip of the bear's tail moving in the brush.Hoping to catch a mouse, she snapped at it. Terrified, the bear jumpedfrom his hiding place and fled in all haste up a tree, where he thought hewould be safe from the enemy.But he was wrong, because the rooster was there as well. Seeing thebear in the tree, the rooster jumped from one branch to the next, alwaysgoing higher and higher. The bear was beside himself. Terrified, he fellfrom the tree and lay there stone dead. And thus the battle ended.The news of the brave deeds of Sultan and his companions spread far andwide, also to the village where Sultan had formerly served. As aconsequence, the peasant family took back their loyal watchdog and caredfor him.