THERE was once upon a time a man who lost his wife, and a woman who losther husband. and the man had a daughter and so had the woman. The twogirls were great friends and used often to play together. One day thewoman turned to the man's daughter and said:'Go and tell your father that I will marry him, and then you shall washin milk and drink wine, but my own daughter shall wash in water anddrink it too.'The girl went straight home and told her father what the woman had said.'What am I to do?' he answered. 'Marriage is either a success or it is afailure.'At last, being of an undecided character and not being able to make uphis mind, he took off his boot, and handing it to his daughter, said:'Take this boot which has a hole in the sole, hang it up on a nail inthe hayloft, and pour water into it. If it holds water I will marryagain, but if it doesn't I won't.' The girl did as she was bid, but thewater drew the hole together and the boot filled up to the very top. Soshe went and told her father the result. He got up and went to see forhimself, and when he saw that it was true and no mistake, he acceptedhis fate, proposed to the widow, and they were married at once.On the morning after the wedding, when the two girls awoke, milk wasstanding for the man's daughter to wash in and wine for her to drink.but for the woman's daughter, only water to wash in and only water todrink. On the second morning, water to wash in and water to drink wasstanding for the man's daughter as well. And on the third morning, waterto wash in and water to drink was standing for the man's daughter, andmilk to wash in and wine to drink for the woman's daughter. and so itcontinued ever after. The woman hated her stepdaughter from the bottomof her heart, and did all she could to make her life miserable. She wasas jealous as she could possibly be, because the girl was so beautifuland charming, while her own daughter was both ugly and repulsive.One winter's day when there was a hard frost, and mountain and valleywere covered with snow, the woman made a dress of paper, and calling thegirl to her said:'There, put on this dress and go out into the wood and fetch me a basketof strawberries!''Now Heaven help us,' replied her stepdaughter. 'strawberries don'tgrow in winter. the earth is all frozen and the snow has covered upeverything. and why send me in a paper dress? it is so cold outside thatone's very breath freezes. the wind will whistle through my dress, andthe brambles tear it from my body.''How dare you contradict me!' said her stepmother. 'be off with you atonce, and don't show your face again till you have filled the basketwith strawberries.'Then she gave her a hard crust of bread, saying:'That will be enough for you to day,' and she thought to herself: 'Thegirl will certainly perish of hunger and cold outside, and I shan't bebothered with her any more.'The girl was so obedient that she put on the paper dress and set outwith her little basket. There was nothing but snow far and near, and nota green blade of grass to be seen anywhere. When she came to the woodshe saw a little house, and out of it peeped three little dwarfs. Shewished them good day, and knocked modestly at the door. They called outto her to enter, so she stepped in and sat down on a seat by the fire,wishing to warm herself and eat her breakfast. The Dwarfs said at once:'Give us some of your food!''Gladly,' she said, and breaking her crust in two, she gave them thehalf.Then they asked her what she was doing in the depths of winter in herthin dress.'Oh,' she answered, 'I have been sent to get a basketful ofstrawberries, and I daren't show my face again at home till I bring themwith me.'When she had finished her bread they gave her a broom and told her tosweep away the snow from the back door. As soon as she left the roomto do so, the three little men consulted what they should give her as areward for being so sweet and good, and for sharing her last crust withthem.The first said: 'Every day she shall grow prettier.'The second: 'Every time she opens her mouth a piece of gold shall fallout.'And the third: 'A King shall come and marry her.'The girl in the meantime was doing as the Dwarfs had bidden her, andwas sweeping the snow away from the back door, and what do you think shefound there? heaps of fine ripe strawberries that showed out dark redagainst the white snow. She joyfully picked enough to fill her basket,thanked the little men for their kindness, shook hands with them, andran home to bring her stepmother what she had asked for. When she walkedin and said. Good evening,' a piece of gold fell out of her mouth. Thenshe told what had hap pened to her in the wood, and at every word piecesof gold dropped from her mouth, so that the room was soon covered withthem.'She's surely more money than wit to throw gold about like that,'said her stepsister, but in her secret heart she was very jealous, anddetermined that she too would go to the wood and look for strawberries.But her mother refused to let her go, saying:'My dear child, it is far too cold. you might freeze to death.'The girl however left her no peace, so she was forced at last to givein, but she insisted on her putting on a beautiful fur cloak, and shegave her bread and butter and cakes to eat on the way.The girl went straight to the little house in the wood, and as beforethe three little men were looking out of the window. She took no noticeof them, and without as much as 'By your leave,' or 'With your leave,'she flounced into the room, sat herself down at the fire, and began toeat her bread and butter and cakes.'Give us some,' cried the Dwarfs.But she answered: 'No, I won't, it's hardly enough for myself. so catchme giving you any.'When she had finished eating they said:'There's a broom for you, go and clear up our back door.''I'll see myself further,' she answered rudely. 'Do it yourselves. I'mnot your servant.'When she saw that they did not mean to give her anything, she left thehouse in no amiable frame of mind. Then the three little men consultedwhat they should do to her, because she was so bad and had such an evil,covetous heart, that she grudged everybody their good fortune.The first said: 'She shall grow uglier every day.'The second: 'Every time she speaks a toad shall jump out of her mouth.'And the third: 'She shall die a most miserable death.'The girl searched for strawberries, but she found none, and returnedhome in a very bad temper. When she opened her mouth to tell her motherwhat had befallen her in the wood, a toad jumped out, so that everyonewas quite disgusted with her.Then the stepmother was more furious than ever, and did nothing but plotmischief against the man's daughter, who was daily growing more and morebeautiful. At last, one day the wicked woman took a large pot, put it onthe fire and boiled some yarn in it. When it was well scalded she hungit round the poor girl's shoulder, and giving her an axe, she badeher break a hole in the frozen river, and rinse the yarn in it. Herstepdaughter obeyed as usual, and went and broke a hole in the ice.When she was in the act of wringing out the yarn a magnificent carriagepassed, and the King sat inside. The carriage stood still, and the Kingasked her:'My child, who are you, and what in the wide world are you doing here?''I am only a poor girl,' she answered, 'and am rinsing out my yarnin the river.' Then the King was sorry for her, and when he saw howbeautiful she was he said:'Will you come away with me?''Most gladly,' she replied, for she knew how willingly she would leaveher stepmother and sister, and how glad they would be to be rid of her.So she stepped into the carriage and drove away with the King, and whenthey reached his palace the wedding was celebrated with much splendour.So all turned out just as the three little Dwarfs had said. After a yearthe Queen gave birth to a little son. When her stepmother heard of hergood fortune she came to the palace with her daughter by way of payinga call, and took up her abode there. Now one day, when the King was outand nobody else near, the bad woman took the Queen by her head, and thedaughter took her by her heels, and they dragged her from her bed, andflung her out of the window into the stream which flowed beneath it.Then the stepmother laid her ugly daughter in the Queen's place, andcovered her up with the clothes, so that nothing of her was seen. Whenthe King came home and wished to speak to his wife the woman called out:'Quietly, quietly I this will never do. your wife is very ill, you mustlet her rest all to day.' The King suspected no evil, and didn't comeagain till next morning. When he spoke to his wife and she answered him,instead of the usual piece of gold a toad jumped out of her mouth. Thenhe asked what it meant, and the old woman told him it was nothing butweakness, and that she would soon be all right again.But that same evening the scullion noticed a duck swimming up thegutter, saying as it passed:'What does the King, I pray you tell,Is he awake or sleeps he well?'and receiving no reply, it continued:'And all my guests, are they asleep?'and the Scullion answered:'Yes, one and all they slumber deep.'Then the Duck went on:'And what about my baby dear?'and he answered:'Oh, it sleeps soundly, never fear.'Then the Duck assumed the Queen's shape, went up to the child's room,tucked him up comfortably in his cradle, and then swam back down thegutter again, in the likeness of a Duck. This was repeated for twonights, and on the third the Duck said to the Scullion:'Go and tell the King to swing his sword three times over me on thethreshold.'The Scullion did as the creature bade him, and the King came with hissword and swung it three times over the bird, and lo and behold! hiswife stood before him once more, alive, and as blooming as ever.The King rejoiced greatly, but he kept the Queen in hiding till theSunday on which the child was to be christened. After the christening hesaid:'What punishment does that person deserve who drags another out of bed,and throws him or her, as the case may be, into the water?'Then the wicked old stepmother answered:'No better fate than to be put into a barrel lined with sharp nails, andto be rolled in it down the hill into the water.''You have pronounced your own doom,' said the King. and he ordered abarrel to be made lined with sharp nails, and in it he put the bad oldwoman and her daughter. Then it was fastened down securely, and thebarrel was rolled down the hill till it fell into the river.(19)(19) Grimm.