In the neighborhood of Baghdad there was a beautiful meadow, which wasthe home of many wild animals. They wouldhave lived very happily there had it not been for one mischief lovinglion. Every day this lion wandered about, killing manyhelpless creatures for the mere sport of the slaying.To put an end to this, the animals gathered in a body, and going to thelion, spoke to him in this manner, "King lion, we areproud to have such a brave and valiant beast to rule over us. But we donot think that it is fitting for one of your rank to hunt forhis own food. We therefore wait upon you with this request: Henceforth doyou remain quietly at home, and we your subjectswill bring to your lair such food as it is fitting that a king shouldeat."The lion, who was greatly flattered, immediately accepted their offer.Thus every day the animals drew lots to decide whoamong their number should offer himself for the lion's daily portion. Indue time it came about that the lot fell upon the hare. Nowthe hare, when he learned that it was his turn to die, complainedbitterly."Do you not see that we are still tormented by that lion?" he asked theother animals. "Only leave it to me, and I will releaseyou for all time from his tyranny."The other animals were only too glad at these words, and told the hareto go his way. The hare hid for some time in thebushes, and then hurried to the lion's lair. By this time the lion was asangry as he was hungry. He was snarling, and lashing hisyellow tail on the ground.When he saw the hare, he called out loudly, "Who are you, and what aremy subjects doing? I have had no morsel of food today!"The hare besought him to calm his anger and listen to him. "The lotfell today," he began, "on another hare and myself. Ingood season we were on our way here to offer ourselves for your dinner,when a lion sprang out of the bushes and seized mycompanion. In vain I cried to him that we were destined for the king'stable, and, moreover, that no one was permitted to hunt inthese royal woods except your majesty. He paid no heed to my words save toretort, 'You do not know what you are saying. Iam the only king here. That other lion, to whom you all bow down, is ausurper.' Dumb with fright, I jumped into the nearestbush."The lion grew more and more indignant as he listened to the hare'stale."If I could once find that lion," he roared, "I would soon teach himwho is king of these woods.""If your majesty will trust me," answered the hare, humbly, "I can takeyou to his hiding place."So the hare and the lion went out together. They crossed the woods andthe meadow, and came to an ancient well, whichwas full of clear, deep water."Yonder is the home of your enemy," whispered the hare, pointing to thewell. "If you go near enough, you can see him.But," he added, "perhaps you had better wait until he comes out before youattack him."These words only made the lion more indignant. "He shall not live amoment after I have laid eyes upon him," he growled.So the hare and the lion approached stealthily to the well. As theybent over the edge and looked down into the clear water,they saw themselves reflected there. The lion, thinking that it was theother lion with the other hare, leaped into the well, never tocome out again.