Once upon a time there was a peasant. He worked in the woods and tookhis oldest daughter along to help him. When the day grew hot he took offhis jacket and laid it in the grass. When his work was finished, he askedhis daughter to fetch it for him. She went to it, but there was a wormlying on it. She did not want to pick it up, so she ran back to her fatherand asked him what she should do. He told her not to be afraid of theworm. She should just throw it aside and bring him his jacket. She didthis, and they went home.The next day the peasant again went to work in the woods, taking hissecond daughter along. Everything happened as before, and in the end shethrew the worm aside, and she and her father returned home together.On the third day, the first daughter was to go along again, but thethird daughter asked the father to take her. She wanted to help out likethe others. They laughed at her, and asked her just how she would be ableto help. They had a low opinion of her and kept her at home like aCinderella. But she begged her father so earnestly, that he finally saidshe might come along. When it was time to go home, her father told her tofetch his jacket. She went to it and found the worm on it. But she said toit, "Dear little worm, would you like a soft place to lie?"The worm looked at her with bright and friendly eyes, as though itwanted to say "yes!" Therefore she gathered together some moss and madehim a nice soft nest. As soon as she laid him in it, the worm began tospeak, and asked her, "Would you like to enter my service? All you have todo is carry me about a few hours each day. For this you will receive agood wage and food and drink as well. If you do this for three years, Iwill be redeemed, because I am an enchanted prince, and then I will marryyou!"The girl said that she would do it, and the worm said, "Then come heretomorrow at the same time."After that she went home with her father. Then she said, "I have livedat home long enough. I am going try my luck out in the world."They all laughed at her, saying, "You, Cinderella, who would have anyuse for you?"The girl replied, "I already have a position," and asked her father toallow her to leave. He did not want to give his permission, because evenif she did not understand very much, she was still a good worker. Finallyhe gave in to her begging, and the next day she set forth.She went into the woods and soon found the worm. He was very pleasedthat she had come, and he told her that she should now carry him around alittle. That she did, and when the time was up, a splendid castle suddenlyappeared. In the castle there was a great hall with a large table alldecked out with food and drink, more beautiful than anything she had everseen in her entire lifetime. She ate and drank her fill, and then went tobed. Every day she carried the worm about for an hour or two and then wentto the castle, where everything was prepared for her, and where she wassplendidly provided for.After a year had passed she asked the worm for permission to visit herfather. He agreed on the condition that she return promptly. She took goldand other precious things for her father and her sisters and went home.When she arrived with her treasures, her sisters wanted to know where shehad gotten it all, and who her master was. But she told them nothing, forthe worm had forbidden her to do so. They beat her and scolded her, butshe said nothing.The next day she went back into the woods to the worm, and againcarried it about for an hour or two each day. At the end of the secondyear she once again visited her father and her sisters, and also at theend of the third year. When she left the worm, he ordered her also thislast time to return promptly, and she promised to do so.Her father and her sisters insisted that she tell them who her masterwas and where she worked, and they refused to let her go. Finally she toreherself away with force. When she returned to the woods, it was too late.The worm was no longer there. Sadly she looked everywhere, but that castlehad disappeared, and the worm as well, for while she was away, his spellhad lapsed, and he had turned back into a king, and he was now back athome in his own kingdom.The girl decided to search for him throughout the world. On her way shecame to a hut in the forest where an old woman lived, whom she asked forshelter for the night. The old woman received her in a friendly manner,and the next morning when she was about the leave, she gave her threeapples. She told her there was a golden spindle in the first one, a goldenyarn reel in the second one, and a golden spinning wheel in the third one,and told her whom she would meet and what she should do. The girl kindlythanked the friendly old woman and set forth.Many days later and after she had walked a great distance, she came toa glass mountain. She did not know how she could cross over it, because itwas so smooth that she always slid back down. Finally she saw a smithy notfar away. She went there and had horseshoes attached to her hands andknees, and climbed over the mountain.She came to a great city. This was where the king lived who had beenthe worm that she had carried about every day. He was already married. Hehad a beautiful wife and had long since forgotten the girl.She disguised herself and went to the castle where she hired herselfout as a silk spinster. On the first day she opened the first apple thatthe old woman in the woods had given her. She took out the golden spindle.When the queen saw it, she liked it very much and wanted to buy it fromthe girl. "No," she said. "It is not for sale, but I will give it to youif you will let me sleep with the king one night.""Why not?," thought the queen, and gave her promise. As eveningapproached she gave the king a sleeping potion, and when he was fastasleep, she sent for the silk spinster and led her into the king'sbedroom.She sat next to his bed and cried bitterly, "Now I know thatthanklessness is the way of the world," she said. "Three years I carriedyou about as a worm. For your sake I received blows and harsh words frommy father and sisters. I had horseshoes attached to my hands and knees inorder to climb over the glass mountain. Now you have forgotten everythingand taken another wife." But the king was so fast asleep that he did notunderstand a thing. At dawn the queen came and led the silk spinster outagain.Sadly she took the second apple, broke it open, and took out the goldenyarn reel. When the queen saw it, she admired it greatly and asked thegirl to sell it to her. Once again she said that it was not for sale, butit could be earned if she were allowed to sleep with the king for anothernight. The queen gave her promise, and everything happened as during thefirst night. The king lay in knee deep sleep, and no amount of crying andcomplaining could awaken him. However, one of the king's servants had seenthe queen bring the spinster into the king's bedroom. He was curious, andlistened to everything that the silk spinster said. The next day he toldthe king what he had seen and heard.But that morning the queen had once again led the silk spinster out ofthe king's bedroom. In desperation, the girl opened her last apple, theone with the golden spinning wheel. When the queen saw it, she said shewould let her sleep with the king yet another night, if she would give herthe golden spinning wheel. The girl agreed, and that evening the queenonce again gave her husband a sleeping potion, but he only pretended todrink it. He secretly poured it out, then lay down and pretended to beasleep. Then the queen fetched the silk spinster and led her into theking's bedroom. The girl sat sadly next to the king's bed and criedbitterly, "Now I know that thanklessness is the way of the world," shesaid. "Three years I carried you about as a worm. For your sake I receivedblows and harsh words from my father and sisters. I had horseshoesattached to my hands and knees in order to climb over the glass mountain.And you have forgotten everything and taken another wife."The king listened silently to every word, but pretended to be asleep.The next day he ordered a large festive meal, and he invited the silkspinster to take her place at his right side. When everyone was seated, hesaid, "I want to present all of you with a question, and ask for yourhonest and open answer. Many years ago I lost the key to my chest, andtherefore had a new one made. But now I have found the old one. Which oneshould I use from now on?""The old one," they all said as with one voice. "The old one alwaysfits better.""Now," said the king, "the silk spinster who is sitting here at myright side took care of me for three years while I was an enchanted worm.She suffered greatly on my behalf. Therefore, I would like to leave mywife for as long as the first one is alive, and marry her." And that iswhat he did. And thus the silk spinster became queen.