Newtown, or Franchville, as 'twas called of old, is a sleepy littletown, upon the Solent shore. Sleepy as it is now, it was once noisyenough, and what made the noise was   rats. The place was so infestedwith them as to be scarce worth living in. There wasn't a barn or acorn rick, a storeroom or a cupboard, but they ate their way into it. Nota cheese but they gnawed it hollow, not a sugar puncheon but they clearedout. Why the very mead and beer in the barrels was not safe from them.They'd gnaw a hole in the top of the tun, and down would go one masterrat's rail, and when he brought it up round would crowd all the friendsand cousins, and each would have a suck at the tail.Had they stopped here it might have been borne. But the squeaking andshrieking, the hurrying and scurrying, so that you could neither hearyourself speak nor get a wink of good honest sleep the live long night!Not to mention that mamma must needs sit up and keep watch and ward overbaby's cradle, or there'd have been a big ugly rat running across the poorlittle fellow's face, and doing who knows what mischief.Why didn't the good people of the town have cats? Well they did, andthere was a fair stand up fight, but in the end the rats were too many,and the pussies were regularly driven from the field.Poison, I hear you say? Why, they poisoned so many that it fairly breda plague.Ratcatchers! Why there wasn't a ratcatcher from John o' Groat's houseto the Land's End that hadn't tried his luck. But do what they might, catsor poison, terrier or traps, there seemed to be more rats than ever, andevery day a fresh rat was socking his tail or pricking his whiskers.The mayor and the town council were at their wits' end. As they weresitting one day in the town hall racking their poor brains and bewailingtheir hard fate, who should run in but the town beadle."Please, your honor," says he, "here is a very queer fellow come to town.I don't rightly know what to make of him.""Show him in," said the mayor, and in he stepped.A queer fellow, truly, For there wasn't a color of the rainbow but youmight find it in some corner of his dress, and he was tall and thin, andhad keen piercing eyes. "I'm called the Pied Piper," he began. "And praywhat might you be willing to pay me, if I rid you of every single rat inFranchville?"Well, much as they feared the rats, they feared parting with theirmoney more, and fain would they have higgled and haggled. But the piperwas not a man to stand nonsense, and the upshot was that fifty pounds werepromised him (and it meant a lot of money in those old days) as soon asnot a rat was left to squeak or scurry in Franchville.Out of the hall stepped the piper, and as he stepped he laid his pipeto his lips and a shrill keen tune sounded through street and house. Andas each note pierced the air you might have seen a strange sight. For outof every hole the rats came tumbling. There were none too old and none tooyoung, none too big and none too little to crowd at the piper's heels andwith eager feet and upturned noses to patter after him as he paced thestreets. Nor was the piper unmindful of the little toddling ones, forevery fifty yards he'd stop and give an extra flourish on his pipe just togive them time to keep up with the older and stronger of the band.Up Silver Street he went, and down Gold Street, and at the end of GoldStreet is the harbor and the broad Solent beyond. And as he paced along,slowly and gravely, the townsfolk flocked to door and window, and many ablessing they called down upon his head.As for getting near him there were too many rats. And now that he wasat the water's edge he stepped into a boat, and not a rat, as he shovedoff into deep water, piping shrilly all the while, but followed him,plashing, paddling, and wagging their tails with delight. On and on heplayed and played until the tide went down, and each master rat sankdeeper and deeper in the slimy ooze of the harbor, until every mother'sson of them was dead and smothered.The tide rose again, and the piper stepped on shore, but never a ratfollowed. You may fancy the townsfolk had been throwing up their caps andhurrahing and stopping up rat holes and setting the church bellsa ringing. But when the piper stepped ashore, and not so much as a singlesqueak was to be heard, the mayor and the council, and the townsfolkgenerally, began to hum and to haw and to shake their heads.For the town money chest had been sadly emptied of late, and where wasthe fifty pounds to come from? Such an easy job, too! Just getting into aboat and playing a pipe! Why the mayor himself could have done that ifonly he had thought of it.So he hummed and hawed and at last, "Come, my good man," said he. "Yousee what poor folk we are. How can we manage to pay you fifty pounds? Willyou not take twenty? When all is said and done, 'twill be good pay for thetrouble you've taken.""Fifty pounds was what I bargained for," said the piper shortly, "andif I were you I'd pay it quickly, for I can pipe many kinds of tunes, asfolk sometimes find to their cost.""Would you threaten us, you strolling vagabond?" shrieked the mayor,and at the same time he winked to the council. "The rats are all dead anddrowned," muttered he. and so, "You may do your worst, my good man," andwith that he turned short upon his heel."Very well," said the piper, and he smiled a quiet smile. With that helaid his pipe to his lips afresh, but now there came forth no shrillnotes, as it were, of scraping and gnawing, and squeaking and scurrying,but the tune was joyous and resonant, full of happy laughter and merryplay. And as he paced down the streets the elders mocked, but fromschoolroom and playroom, from nursery and workshop, not a child but ranout with eager glee and shout following gaily at the piper's call.Dancing, laughing, joining hands and tripping feet, the bright throngmoved along up Gold Street and down Silver Street, and beyond SilverStreet lay the cool green forest full of old oaks and wide spreadingbeeches. In and out among the oak trees you might catch glimpses of thepipers many colored coat. You might hear the laughter of the childrenbreak and fade and die away as deeper and deeper into the lone green woodthe stranger went, and the children followed.All the while, the elder watched and waited. They mocked no longer now.And watch and wait as they might, never did they set their eyes again uponthe piper in his parti colored coat. Never were their hearts gladdened bythe song and dance of the children issuing forth from amongst the ancientoaks of the forest.