Now it is said that once upon a time there lived a king of Roccaspra,who had a wife who for beauty, grace, and comeliness exceeded all otherwomen. Truly she was the mother of beauty, but this beautiful being, atthe full time of her life, fell from the steed of health, and broke thethreads of life. But before the candle of life was finally put out, shecalled her husband, and said, "I know well, that you have loved me withexcessive love, therefore show me a proof of your love and give me apromise that you will never marry, unless you meet one beautiful as I havebeen. and if you will not so promise, I will leave you a curse, and I willhate you even in the other world."The king, who loved her above all things, hearing this her last will,began to weep and lament, and for a while could not find a word to say.but after his grief subsided, he replied, "If I ever think of taking awife, may the gout seize me, and may I become as gaunt as an asparagus. ohmy love, forget it. Do not believe in dreams, nor that I can ever put myaffection upon another woman. You will take with you all my joy anddesire." And while he was thus speaking, the poor lady, who was at herlast, turned up her eyes and stretched her feet.When the king saw that her soul had taken flight, his eyes becamefountains of tears, and he cried with loud cries, buffeted his face, andwept, and wailed, so that all the courtiers ran to his side. Hecontinually called upon the name of that good soul and cursed his fate,which had deprived him of her, and tore his hair, and pulled out hisbeard, and accused the stars of having sent to him this great misfortune.But he did as others do. A bump on the elbow and the loss of a wife causemuch pain, but it does not last. The one pain disappears at one's side,and the other into the grave.Night had not yet come forth to look about the heavens for the bats,when he began to make count on his fingers, saying "My wife is dead, and Iam a widower, and sad hearted without hope of any kind but my onlydaughter, since she left me. Therefore it will be necessary to findanother wife that will bear me a son. But where can I find one? Where canI meet a woman endowed with my wife's beauty, when all other females seemwitches in my sight? There is the rub! Where shall I find another likeunto her? Where am I to seek her with a bell, if nature formed Nardella(may her soul rest in glory), and then broke the mould? Alas! in whatlabyrinth am I! What a mistake was the promise I made her! But what? Ihave not seen the wolf yet, but I am running away already. Let us seek,let us see, and let us understand. Is it possible, that there is no otherdonkey in the stable except for Nardella? Is it possible that the worldwill be lost for me? Will there be such a plague that all women will bedestroyed and their seed lost?"And thus saying, he commanded the public crier to proclaim that all thebeautiful women in the world should come and undergo the comparison ofbeauty, that he would take to wife the best looking of all, and make herthe queen of his realm. This news spread in all parts of the world, andnot one of the women in the whole universe failed to come and try thisventure. Not even flayed hags stayed behind, they came by the dozen,because, when the point of beauty is touched, there is none who willyield, there is no sea monster who will give herself up as hideous. eachand everyone boasts of uncommon beauty.If a donkey speaks the truth, the mirror is blamed for not reflectingthe form as it is naturally. it is the fault of the quicksilver at theback. And now the land was full of women, and the king ordered that theyshould all stand in file, and he began to walk up and down, like a sultanwhen he enters his harem, to choose the best Genoa stone to sharpen hisdamascene blade. He came and went, up and down, like a monkey who is neverstill, looking and staring at this one and that one. One had a crookedbrow, another a long nose, one a large mouth, and another thick lips. Thisone was too tall and gaunt, that other was short and badly formed, thisone was too much dressed, another was too slightly robed. He disliked theSpanish woman because of the hue of her skin. the Neapolitan was not tohis taste because of the way in which she walked. the German seemed to himtoo cold and frozen. the French woman too light of brains. the Venetian aspinning wheel full of flax. At last, for one reason or another, he sentthem all about their business with one hand in front and another behind.Seeing so many beautiful heads of celery turned to hard roots andhaving resolved to marry nevertheless, he turned to his own daughter,saying, "What am I seeking about these Marys of Ravenna, if my daughterPreziosa is made from the same mould as her mother? I have this beautifulface at home, and yet I should go to the end of the world seeking it?"Thus he explained to his daughter his desire, and was severely reprovedand censured by her, as Heaven knows. The king was angry at her rejection,and said to her, "Be quiet and hold your tongue. Make up your mind to tiethe matrimonial knot with me this very evening. otherwise when I finishwith you there will be nothing left but your ears."Preziosa, hearing this threat, retired to her room, and wept andlamented her evil fate. And while she lay there in this plight, an oldwoman, who used to bring her cosmetics, came to her, and finding her insuch a plight, looking like one more ready for the other world than forthis one, enquired the cause of her distress. When the old woman learnedwhat had happened, she said, "Be of good cheer, my daughter, and despairnot, for every evil has a remedy. Death alone has no cure. Now listen tome: When your father comes to you this evening   donkey that he is,wanting to act the stallion   put this piece of wood into your mouth, andyou will at once become a she bear. Then you can make your escape, for hewill be afraid of you and let you go. Go straight to the forest, for itwas written in the book of fate, the day that you were born, that thereyou should meet your fortune. When you want to turn back into a woman asyou are and will ever be, take the bit of wood out of your mouth, and youwill return to your pristine form."Preziosa embraced and thanked the old woman, told the servants to giveher an apron full of flour and some slices of ham, and sent her away. Whenthe sun began to change her quarters like a bankrupt strumpet, the kingsent for his minister, and had him issue invitations to all the lords andgrandees to come to the marriage feast. They all crowded in. Afterspending five or six hours in high revelry and unrestrained eating, theking made his way to the bed chamber, and called to the bride to come andfulfil his desire. But she put the bit of wood into her mouth, andinstantly took the shape of a fierce she bear, and stood thus before him.He, frightened at the sudden change, rolled himself up in the bedding, anddid not put forth a finger or an eye until morning.Meanwhile Preziosa made her way toward the forest, where the shadowsmet concocting together how they could annoy the sun. There she lay ingood fellowship and at one with the other animals. When the day dawned, ithappened by chance that the son of the King of Acquacorrente should cometo that forest. He sighted the she bear and was greatly frightened, butthe beast came forward, and wagging her tail, walked around him, and puther head under his hand for him to caress her. He took heart at thisstrange sight, smoothed its head as he would have done to a dog, and saidto it, "Lie down, down, quiet, quiet, there there, good beast." Seeingthat the beast was very tame, he took her home with him, commanding hisservants to put her in the garden by the side of the royal palace, andthere to attend to and feed her well, and treat her as they would his ownperson, and to take her to a particular spot so that he might see her fromthe windows of his palace whenever he had a mind to.Now it so happened that one day all his people were away on someerrand, and the prince being left alone, thought about the bear, andlooked out of the window to see her. However, at that very momentPreziosa, believing she was utterly alone, had taken the bit of wood fromher mouth, and stood combing her golden hair. The prince was amazed atthis woman of great beauty, and he descended the stairs and ran to thegarden. But Preziosa, perceiving the ambush, at once put the bit of woodinto her mouth, and became a she bear once more. The prince looked about,but could not see what he had sighted from above, and not finding what hecame to seek, remained very disappointed, and was melancholy and sadhearted, and in a few days became grievously ill. He kept repeating, "Ohmy bear, oh my bear."His mother, hearing this continual cry, imagined that perhaps the bearhad bit him or done him some evil, and therefore ordered the servants tokill her. But all the servants loved the beast because it was so verytame, even the stones in the roadway could not help liking her, so theyhad compassion and could not think of killing her. Therefore they led herto the forest, and returning to the queen, told her that she was dead.When this deed came to the prince's ears, he acted as a madman, andleaving his bed, ill as he was, was about to make mincemeat of theservants. They told him the truth of the affair. He mounted his steed andsearched backward and forward until at length he came to a cave and foundthe bear.He carried her home with him and put her in a chamber, saying, "Oh youbeautiful morsel fit for kings, why do you hide your passing beauty in abear's hide? Oh light of love, why are you closed in such an hairylantern? Why have you acted this way toward me, is it so that you may seeme die a slow death? I am dying of despair, charmed by your beautifulform, and you can see the witness of my words in my failing health andsickening form. I am become skin and bone, and the fever burns my verymarrow, and consumes me with heart sore pain. Therefore lift the veil fromthat stinking hide, and let me behold once more your grace and beauty.lift up the leaves from this basket's mouth, and let me take a view of thesplendid fruit within. lift the tapestry, and allow my eyes to feast uponthe luxury of your charms. Who has enclosed in a dreary prison such aglorious work? Who has enclosed in a leather casket such a pricelesstreasure? Let me behold your passing grace, and take in payment all mydesires. Oh my love, only this bear's grease can cure the nervous diseaseof which I suffer." But perceiving that his words had no effect, and thatall was time lost, he took to his bed, and his illness increased daily,until the doctors feared for his life.The queen, his mother, who had no other love in the world, sat at hisbedside, and said to him, "Oh my son, where does your heartsickness comefrom? What is the cause of all this sadness? You are young, you are rich,you are beloved, you are great. What do you want, my son? Speak, for onlya shameful beggar carries an empty pocket. If you desire to take a wife,choose, and I will command. take, and I will pay. Can you not see thatyour sickness is my sickness and that your pulse beats in unison with myheart? If you burn with fever in your blood, I burn with fever on thebrain. I have no other support for my old age but you. Therefore, my son,be cheerful, and cheer my heart, and do not darken this realm, and raze tothe ground this house, and bereave your mother."The prince, hearing these words, said, "Nothing can cheer me, if I maynot see the bear. therefore, if you desire to see me in good health again,let her stay in this room, and I do not wish that any other serve me, andmake my bed, and cook my meals, if it be not herself, and if what I desirebe done, I am sure that I shall be well in a few days." To the queen itseemed folly for her son to ask that a bear should act as cook andhousemaid. She believed that the prince must be delirious. nevertheless,to please his fancy, she went for the bear, and when the beast came to theprince's bedside she lifted her paw and felt the invalid's pulse. Thequeen smiled at the sight, thinking that by and by the bear would scratchthe prince's nose. But the prince spoke to the bear, and said, "Ohmischievous mine, will you not cook for me, and feed me, and serve me?"And the bear nodded yes with her head, showing that she would accept thecharge. Then the queen sent for some chickens, and had a fire lit in thefireplace in the same chamber, and had a kettle with boiling water put onthe fire. The bear took hold of a chicken, scalded it, dexterously pluckedoff its feathers, cleaned it, put half of it on the spit, and stewed theother half. When it was ready, the prince, who could not before eat evensugar, ate it all and licked his fingers. When he had ended his meal, thebear brought him some drink, and handed it so gracefully that the queenkissed her on the head. After this the prince arose, and went to the salonto receive the doctors, and to be directed by their judgment. The bear atonce made the bed, ran to the garden and gathered a handful of roses andorange blossoms, which she scattered upon the bed. She fulfilled hervarious duties so well that the queen said to herself, "This bear is wortha treasure, and my son is quite right in being fond of the beast."When the prince returned to his chambers, and saw how well the bear hadfulfilled her duties, it was like adding fuel to the fire. If he had beenconsumed himself in a slow fire before, he was now burning with intenseheat. He said to the queen "Oh my lady mother, if I cannot give a kiss tothis bear, I shall give up the ghost." The queen, seeing her son nearlyfainting, said to the bear, "Kiss him, kiss him, oh my beautiful bear, donot leave my poor son to die in despair." Then the bear obediently nearedthe prince, who took her cheeks between his fingers, could not stopkissing her on the lips.While thus engaged, I do not know how it happened, the bit of wood fellfrom Preziosa's mouth, and she remained in the prince's embrace, the mostbeautiful and ravishing being in the world. He strained her to his bosomwith tightly clasped arms, and said, "You are caught at last, and youshall not escape so easily without a reason." Preziosa, reddening with thelovely tint of modesty and of shame, the most beautiful of naturalbeauties, answered, "I am in your hands. I surrender my honor to yourloyalty. Do with me what you will." The queen asked who this charmingwoman was, and what had caused her to live such a wild life. She relatedto them all her misfortunes, and the queen praised her as a good andhonored child, and said to her son that she was well satisfied that heshould marry the princess. The prince, who wanted nothing else, at onceannounced his betrothal to her. Kneeling before the queen, they bothreceived her blessing, and with great feasting the marriage took place.Thus Preziosa demonstrated the truth of the proverb: "Those who do goodmay expect good in return."