"Moll Roe Rafferty, the daughter of ould Jack Rafferty, was a fine youngbouncin' girl, large an' lavish, wid a purty head of hair on her likescarlet, that bein' one of the raisons why she was called _Roe_ or red.her arms and cheeks were much the colour of the hair, an' her saddlenose was the purtiest thing of its kind that ever was on a face."Well, anyhow, it was Moll Rafferty that was the _dilsy_. It happenedthat there was a nate vagabone in the neighbourhood, just as muchoverburdened wid beauty as herself, and he was named Gusty Gillespie.Gusty was what they call a black mouth Prosbytarian, and wouldn't keepChristmas day, except what they call 'ould style.' Gusty was rathergood lookin', when seen in the dark, as well as Moll herself. anyhow,they got attached to each other, and in the end everything was arrangedfor their marriage."Now this was the first marriage that had happened for a long time inthe neighbourhood between a Prodestant and a Catholic, and faix, therewas one of the bride's uncles, ould Harry Connolly, a fairyman, whocould cure all complaints wid a secret he had, and as he didn't wish tosee his niece married on sich a fellow, he fought bittherly against thematch. All Moll's friends, however, stood up for the marriage, barrin'him, and, of coorse, the Sunday was appointed, as I said, that they wereto be dove tailed together."Well, the day arrived, and Moll, as became her, went to mass, and Gustyto meeting, afther which they were to join one another in JackRafferty's, where the priest, Father Mc. Sorley, was to slip up afthermass to take his dinner wid them, and to keep Misther Mc. Shuttle, whowas to marry them, company. Nobody remained at home but ould JackRafferty an' his wife, who stopped to dress the dinner, for, to tell thetruth, it was to be a great let out entirely. Maybe, if all was known,too, Father Mc. Sorley was to give them a cast of his office over andabove the ministher, in regard that Moll's friends were not altogethersatisfied at the kind of marriage which Mc. Shuttle could give them. Thesorrow may care about that splice here, splice there all I can say isthat when Mrs. Rafferty was goin' to tie up a big bag pudden, in walksHarry Connolly, the fairyman, in a rage, and shouts out, 'Blood andblunderbushes, what are yez here for?'"'Arrah, why, Harry? Why, avick?'"'Why, the sun's in the suds, and the moon in the high Horricks. there'sa clip stick comin' on, and there you're both as unconsarned as if itwas about to rain mether. Go out, an' cross yourselves three times inthe name o' the four Mandromarvins, for as prophecy says: "Fill thepot, Eddy, supernaculum a blazing star's a rare spectaculum." Go out,both of you, an' look at the sun, I say, an' ye'll see the conditionhe's in off!'"Begad, sure enough, Jack gave a bounce to the door, and his wife leapedlike a two year ould, till they were both got on a stile beside thehouse to see what was wrong in the sky."'Arrah, what is it, Jack?' says she, 'can you see anything?'"'No,' says he, 'sorra the full of my eye of anything I can spy, barrin'the sun himself, that's not visible, in regard of the clouds. God guardus! I doubt there's something to happen.'"'If there wasn't Jack, what'd put Harry, that knows so much, in thestate he's in?'"'I doubt it's this marriage,' says Jack. 'Betune ourselves, it's notover an' above religious of Moll to marry a black mouth, an' only for .but, it can't be helped now, though you see it's not a taste o' the sunis willin' to show his face upon it.'"'As to that,' says his wife, winkin' with both her eyes, 'if Gusty'ssatisfied wid Moll, it's enough. I know who'll carry the whip hand,anyhow. but in the manetime let us ax Harry within what ails the sun?'"Well, they accordianly went in, and put this question to him, 'Harry,what's wrong, ahagur? What is it now, for if anybody alive knows 'tisyourself?'"'Ah,' said Harry, screwin' his mouth wid a kind of a dry smile, 'thesun has a hard twist o' the colic. but never mind that, I tell you,you'll have a merrier weddin' than you think, that's all'. and havin'said this, he put on his hat and left the house."Now, Harry's answer relieved them very much, and so, afther callin' tohim to be back for dinner, Jack sat down to take a shough o' the pipe,and the wife lost no time in tying up the pudden, and puttin' it in thepot to be boiled."In this way things went on well enough for a while, Jack smokin' away,an' the wife cookin' an' dhressin' at the rate of a hunt. At last, Jack,while sittin', as I said, contentedly at the fire, thought he couldpersave an odd dancin' kind of motion in the pot that puzzled him a gooddeal."'Katty,' says he, 'what the dickens is in this pot on the fire?'"'Nerra thing but the big pudden. Why do you ax?' says she."'Why,' says he, 'if ever a pot tuck it into its head to dance a jig,and this did. Thundher and sparbles, look at it!'"Begad, and it was thrue enough. there was the pot bobbin' up an' down,and from side to side, jiggin' it away as merry as a grig. an' it wasquite aisy to see that it wasn't the pot itself, but what was inside ofit, that brought about the hornpipe."'Be the hole o' my coat,' shouted Jack, 'there's somethin' alive in it,or it would niver cut sich capers!'"'Begorra, there is, Jack. somethin' sthrange entirely has got into it.Wirra, man alive, what's to be done?'"Jist as she spoke the pot seemed to cut the buckle in prime style, andafther a spring that'd shame a dancin' masther, off flew the lid, andout bounced the pudden itself, hoppin' as nimble as a pea on a drum headabout the floor. Jack blessed himself, and Katty crossed herself. Jackshouted, and Katty screamed. 'In the name of goodness, keep yourdistance. no one here injured you!'"The pudden, however, made a set at him, and Jack lepped first on achair, and then on the kitchen table, to avoid it. It then dancedtowards Katty, who was repatin' her prayers at the top of her voice,while the cunnin' thief of a pudden was hoppin' an' jiggin' it aroundher as if it was amused at her distress."'If I could get the pitchfork,' says Jack, 'I'd dale wid it by goxty,I'd thry its mettle.'"'No, no,' shouted Katty, thinking there was a fairy in it. 'let usspake it fair. Who knows what harm it might do? Aisy, now,' says she tothe pudden, 'aisy, dear. don't harm honest people that never meant tooffend you. It wasn't us no, in troth, it was ould Harry Connolly thatbewitched you. pursue _him_, if you wish, but spare a woman like me!'"The pudden, bedad, seemed to take her at her word, and danced away fromher towards Jack, who, like the wife, believin' there was a fairy init, an' that spakin' it fair was the best plan, thought he would give ita soft word as well as her."'Plase your honour,' said Jack, 'she only spaiks the truth, an' upon myvoracity, we both feels much oblaiged to you for your quietness. Faith,it's quite clear that if you weren't a gentlemanly pudden, all out,you'd act otherwise. Ould Harry, the rogue, is your mark. he's jist gonedown the road there, and if you go fast you'll overtake him. Be my song,your dancin' masther did his duty, anyway. Thank your honour! God speedyou, and may you niver meet wid a parson or alderman in your thravels.'"Jist as Jack spoke, the pudden appeared to take the hint, for itquietly hopped out, and as the house was directly on the roadside,turned down towards the bridge, the very way that ould Harry went. Itwas very natural, of coorse, that Jack and Katty should go out to seehow it intended to thravel, and as the day was Sunday, it was butnatural, too, that a greater number of people than usual were passin'the road. This was a fact. and when Jack and his wife were seenfollowin' the pudden, the whole neighbourhood was soon up and afther it."'Jack Rafferty, what is it? Katty, ahagur, will you tell us what itmanes?'"'Why,' replied Katty, 'it's my big pudden that's bewitched, an' it'sout hot foot pursuin'' here she stopped, not wishin' to mention herbrother's name '_someone_ or other that surely put _pishrogues_ anit.'"This was enough. Jack, now seein' that he had assistance, found hiscourage comin' back to him. so says he to Katty, 'Go home,' says he,'an' lose no time in makin' another pudden as good, an' here's PaddyScanlan's wife, Bridget, says she'll let you boil it on her fire, asyou'll want our own to dress the rest of the dinner. and Paddy himselfwill lend me a pitchfork for purshuin' to the morsel of that same puddenwill escape, till I let the wind out of it, now that I've the neighboursto back an' support me,' says Jack."This was agreed to, an' Katty went back to prepare a fresh pudden,while Jack an' half the townland pursued the other wid spades, graips,pitchforks, scythes, flails, and all possible description ofinstruments. On the pudden went, however, at the rate of about six Irishmiles an hour, an' sich a chase was never seen. Catholics, Prodestants,and Prosbytarians were all afther it, armed, as I said, an' bad end tothe thing, but its own activity could save it. Here it made a hop, therea prod was made at it. but off it went, and someone, as eager to get aslice at it on the other side, got the prod instead of the pudden. BigFrank Farrell, the miller, of Ballyboulteen, got a prod backwards thatbrought a hullabulloo out of him that you might hear at the other end ofthe parish. One got a slice of a scythe, another a whack of a flail, athird a rap of a spade, that made him look nine ways at wanst."'Where is it goin'?' asked one. 'My life for you, it's on its way toMeeting. Three cheers for it, if it turns to Carntaul!' 'Prod the sowlout of it if it's a Prodestan'' shouted the others. 'if it turns to theleft, slice it into pancakes. We'll have no Prodestan' puddens here.'"Begad, by this time the people were on the point of beginnin' to have aregular fight about it, when, very fortunately, it took a short turndown a little by lane that led towards the Methodist praychin' house,an' in an instant all parties were in an uproar against it as aMethodist pudden. 'It's a Wesleyan,' shouted several voices. 'an' bythis an' by that, into a Methodist chapel it won't put a foot to day, orwe'll lose a fall. Let the wind out of it. Come, boys, where's yourpitchforks?'"The divle purshuin' to the one of them, however, ever could touch thepudden, and jist when they thought they had it up against the gavel ofthe Methodist chapel, begad, it gave them the slip, and hops over to theleft, clane into the river, and sails away before their eyes as light asan egg shell."Now, it so happened that a little below this place the desmesne wall ofColonel Bragshaw was built up to the very edge of the river on each sideof its banks. and so, findin' there was a stop put to their pursuit ofit, they went home again, every man, woman, and child of them, puzzledto think what the pudden was at all, what it meant, or where it wasgoin'! Had Jack Rafferty an' his wife been willin' to let out theopinion they held about Henry Connolly bewitchin' it, there is no doubtof it but poor Harry might be badly trated by the crowd, when theirblood was up. They had sense enough, howaniver, to keep that tothemselves, for Harry bein' an ould bachelor, was a kind friend to theRaffertys. So, of coorse, there was all kinds of talk about it someguessin' this, an' some guessin' that one party sayin' the pudden wasof their side, and another denyin' it, an' insisting it belonged tothem, an' so on."In the meantime, Katty Rafferty, for 'fraid the dinner might comeshort, went home and made another pudden much about the same size as theone that had escaped, an' bringin' it over to their next neighbour,Paddy Scanlan's, it was put into a pot, and placed on the fire to boil,hopin' that it might be done in time, espishilly as they were to havethe ministher, who loved a warm slice of a good pudden as well as e'er agentleman in Europe."Anyhow, the day passed. Moll and Gusty were made man an' wife, an' notwo could be more lovin'. Their friends that had been asked to theweddin' were saunterin' about in pleasant little groups tilldinner time, chattin' an' laughin'. but above all things, sthrivin' toaccount for the figaries of the pudden. for, to tell the truth, itsadventures had now gone through the whole parish."Well, at any rate, dinner time was drawin' near, and Paddy Scanlan wassittin' comfortably wid his wife at the fire, the pudden boilin' beforetheir eyes, when in walks Harry Connolly in a flutter, shoutin', 'Bloodand blunderbushes, what are yez here for?'"'Arrah, why, Harry why, avick?' said Mrs. Scanlan."'Why,' said Harry, 'the sun's in the suds, an' the moon in the highHorricks! Here's a clipstick comin' on, an' there you sit as unconsarnedas if it was about to rain mether! Go out, both of you, an' look at thesun, I say, an' ye'll see the condition he's in off!'"'Ay, but, Harry, what's that rowled up in the tail of your cothamore(big coat)?'"'Out wid yez,' says Harry, 'an' pray aginst the clipstick the sky'sfallin'!'"Begad, it was hard to say whether Paddy or the wife got out first, theywere so much alarmed by Harry's wild, thin face and piercin' eyes. soout they went to see what was wonderful in the sky, an' kep lookin' an'lookin' in every direction, but not a thing was to be seen, barrin' thesun shinin' down wid great good humour, an' not a single cloud in thesky."Paddy an' the wife now came in laughin' to scould Harry, who no doubtwas a great wag in his way when he wished. 'Musha, bad scran to you,Harry  ' and they had time to say no more, howandiver, for, as theywere goin' into the door, they met him comin' out of it, wid a reek ofsmoke out of his tail like a lime kiln."'Harry,' shouted Bridget, 'my sowl to glory, but the tail of yourcothamore's afire you'll be burned. Don't you see the smoke that's outof it?'"'Cross yourselves three times,' said Harry, widout stoppin' or evenlookin' behind him, 'for, as the prophecy says, Fill the pot, Eddy  'They could hear no more, for Harry appeared to feel like a man thatcarried something a great deal hotter than he wished, as anyone mightsee by the liveliness of his motions, and the quare faces he was forcedto make as he went along."'What the dickens is he carryin' in the skirts of his big coat?' askedPaddy."'My sowl to happiness, but maybe he has stolen the pudden,' saidBridget, 'for it's known that many a sthrange thing he does.'"They immediately examined the pot, but found that the pudden was there,as safe as tuppence, an' this puzzled them the more to think what it washe could be carryin' about with him in the manner he did. But littlethey knew what he had done while they were sky gazin'!"Well, anyhow, the day passed, and the dinner was ready, an' no doubtbut a fine gatherin' there was to partake of it. The Prosbytarianministher met the Methodist praycher a divilish stretcher of anappetite he had, in throth on their way to Jack Rafferty's, an' as heknew he could take the liberty, why, he insisted on his dinin' wid him.for, afther all, in thim days, the clargy of all descriptions lived uponthe best footin' among one another, not all at one as now but nomatther. Well, they had nearly finished their dinner, when Jack Raffertyhimself axed Katty for the pudden. but, jist as he spoke, in it came, asbig as a mess pot."'Gintlemen,' said he, 'I hope none of you will refuse tastin' a bit ofKatty's pudden. I don't mane the dancin' one that took to its thravelsto day, but a good solid fellow that she med since.'"'To be sure we won't,' replied the priest. 'So, Jack, put a thrifle onthem three plates at your right hand, and send them over here to theclargy, an' maybe,' he said, laughin' for he was a droll, good humouredman 'maybe, Jack, we won't set you a proper example.'"'Wid a heart an' a half, your riverence an' gintlemen. in throth, it'snot a bad example ever any of you set us at the likes, or ever will setus, I'll go bail. An' sure, I only wish it was betther fare I had foryou. but we're humble people, gintlemen, an' so you can't expect to meethere what you would in higher places.'"'Betther a male of herbs,' said the Methodist praycher, 'where paceis  ' He had time to get no further, however. for much to hisamazement, the priest an' the ministher started up from the table, jistas he was goin' to swallow the first mouthful of the pudden, and, beforeyou could say Jack Robinson, started away at a lively jig down thefloor."At this moment a neighbour's son came runnin' in, and tould them thatthe parson was comin' to see the new married couple, an' wish them allhappiness. an' the words were scarcely out of his mouth when he made hisappearance. What to think, he knew not, when he saw the ministherfootin' it away at the rate of a weddin'. He had very little time,however, to think. for, before he could sit down, up starts theMethodist praycher, an', clappin' his fists in his sides, chimes in ingreat style along wid him."'Jack Rafferty,' says he, and, by the way, Jack was his tenant, 'whatthe dickens does all this mane?' says he. 'I'm amazed!'"'The not a particle o' me can tell you,' says Jack. 'but will yourreverence jist taste a morsel o' pudden, merely that the young couplemay boast that you ait at their weddin'. for, sure, if _you_ wouldn't,who _would_?'"'Well,' says he, 'to gratify them, I will. so, just a morsel. But,Jack, this bates Bannagher,' says he again, puttin' the spoonful ofpudden into his mouth. 'has there been drink here?'"'Oh, the divle a spudh,' says Jack, 'for although there's plenty in thehouse, faith, it appears the gintlemen wouldn't wait for it. Unless theytuck it elsewhere, I can make nothin' o' this.'"He had scarcely spoken when the parson, who was an active man, cut acaper a yard high, an' before you could bless yourself, the three clargywere hard at work dancin', as if for a wager. Begad, it would beunpossible for me to tell you the state the whole meetin' was in whenthey see this. Some were hoarse wid laughin'. some turned up their eyeswid wondher. many thought them mad. and others thought they had turnedup their little fingers a thrifle too often."'Be goxty, it's a burnin' shame,' said one, 'to see three black mouthclargy in sich a state at this early hour!' 'Thundher an' ounze, what'sover them at all?' says others. 'why, one would think they werebewitched. Holy Moses, look at the caper the Methodist cuts! An' as forthe Recthor, who would think he could handle his feet at sich a rate! Bethis, an' be that, he cuts the buckle, an' does the threblin' stepaiquil to Paddy Horaghan, the dancin' masther himself! An' see! Bad cessto the morsel of the parson that's not too hard at _Peace upon atrancher_, and it upon a Sunday, too! Whirroo, gintlemen, the fun's inyez, afther all whish! more power to yez!'"The sorra's own fun they had, an' no wondher. but judge of what theyfelt when all at once they saw ould Jack Rafferty himself bouncin' inamong them, an' footin' it away like the best of them. Bedad, no playcould come up to it, an' nothin' could be heard but laughin', shouts ofencouragement, an' clappin' of hands like mad. Now, the minute JackRafferty left the chair, where he had been carvin' the pudden, ouldHarry Connolly come over and claps himself down in his place, in ordherto sent it round, of coorse. an' he was scarcely sated when who shouldmake his appearance but Barney Hartigan, the piper. Barney, by the way,had been sent for early in the day, but bein' from home when the messagefor him went, he couldn't come any sooner."'Begorra,' says Barney, 'you're airly at the work gintlemen! But whatdoes this mane? But divle may care, yez shan't want the music, whilethere's a blast in the pipes, anyhow!' So sayin' he gave them _JigPolthogue_, and afther that, _Kiss My Lady_, in his best style."In the manetime the fun went on thick and threefold, for it must beremembered that Harry, the ould knave, was at the pudden. an' maybe, hedidn't sarve it about in double quick time, too! The first he helped wasthe bride, and before you could say chopstick she was at it hard andfast, before the Methodist praycher, who gave a jolly spring before herthat threw them into convulsions. Harry liked this, and made up his mindsoon to find partners for the rest. so he accordianly sent the puddenabout like lightnin'. an', to make a long story short, barrin' the piperan' himself, there wasn't a pair of heels in the house but was as busyat the dancin' as if their lives depended on it."'Barney,' says Harry, 'jist taste a morsel o' this pudden. divle thesich a bully of a pudden ever you ett. Here, your sowl! thry a snig ofit it's beautiful!'"'To be sure I will,' says Barney. 'I'm not the boy to refuse a goodthing. But, Harry, be quick, for you know my hands is engaged, an' itwould be a thousand pities not to keep them in music, an' they so wellinclined. Thank you, Harry. Begad, that is a fine pudden. But, bloodan' turnips! what's this for?'"The word was scarcely out of his mouth when he bounced up, pipes an'all, and dashed into the middle of the party. 'Hurroo! your sowls, letus make a night of it! The Ballyboulteen boys for ever! Go it, yourreverence! turn your partner heel an' toe, ministher. Good! Well done,again! Whish! Hurroo! Here's for Ballyboulteen, an' the sky over it!'"Bad luck to sich a set ever was seen together in this world, or willagain, I suppose. The worst, however, wasn't come yet, for jist as theywere in the very heat an' fury of the dance, what do you think comeshoppin' in among them but another pudden, as nimble an' merry as thefirst! That was enough. they had all heard of it the ministhers amongthe rest an' most of them had seen the other pudden, an' knew thatthere must be a fairy in it, sure enough. Well, as I said, in it comesto the thick o' them. but the very appearance of it was enough. Off thethree clargy danced, and off the whole weddiners danced afther them,everyone makin' the best of their way home. but not a sowl of them ableto break out of the step, if they were to be hanged for it. Throth, itwouldn't lave a laff in you to see the parson dancin' down the road onhis way home, and the ministher and Methodist praycher cuttin' thebuckle as they went along in the opposite direction. To make short workof it, they all danced home at last wid scarce a puff of wind in them.the bride an' bridegroom danced away to bed. an' now, boys, come an' letus dance the _Horo Lheig_ in the barn widout. But, you see, boys, beforewe go, and in order to make everything plain, I had as good tell youthat Harry, in crossin' the bridge of Ballyboulteen, a couple o' milesbetween Squire Bragshaw's demesne wall, saw the pudden floatin' down theriver the truth is, he was waitin' for it. but, be this as it may, hetook it out, for the wather had made it as clane as a new pin, an'tuckin' it up in the tail of his big coat, contrived to bewitch it inthe same manner by gettin' a fairy to get into it, for, indeed, it waspurty well known that the same Harry was hand an' glove wid the _goodpeople_. Others will tell you that it was half a pound of quicksilver heput into it, but that doesn't stand to raison. At any rate, boys, I havetould you the adventures of the Mad Pudden of Ballyboulteen. but I don'twish to tell you many other things about it that happened _for 'fraidI'd tell a lie_!"WILLIAM CARLETON.