There was once a minister who spent his whole time in trying to finda servant who would undertake to ring the church bells at midnight, inaddition to all his other duties.Of course it was not everyone who cared to get up in the middle of thenight, when he had been working hard all day. still, a good many hadagreed to do it. But the strange thing was that no sooner had theservant set forth to perform his task than he disappeared, as if theearth had swallowed him up. No bells were rung, and no ringer ever cameback. The minister did his best to keep the matter secret, but it leakedout for all that, and the end of it was that no one would enter hisservice. Indeed, there were even those who whispered that the ministerhimself had murdered the missing men!It was to no purpose that Sunday after Sunday the minister gave out fromhis pulpit that double wages would be paid to anyone that would fulfilthe sacred duty of ringing the bells of the church. No one took theslightest notice of any offer he might make, and the poor man was indespair, when one day, as he was standing at his house door, a youthknown in the village as Clever Hans came up to him. 'I am tired ofliving with a miser who will not give me enough to eat and drink,' saidhe, 'and I am ready to do all you want.' 'Very good, my son,' repliedthe minister, 'you shall have the chance of proving your courage thisvery night. To morrow we will settle what your wages are to be.'Hans was quite content with this proposal, and went straight into thekitchen to begin his work, not knowing that his new master was quiteas stingy as his old one. In the hope that his presence might be arestraint upon them, the minister used to sit at the table during hisservants' meals, and would exhort them to drink much and often, thinkingthat they would not be able to eat as well, and beef was dearer thanbeer. But in Hans he had met his match, and the minister soon found tohis cost that in his case at any rate a full cup did not mean an emptyplate.About an hour before midnight, Hans entered the church and lockedthe door behind him, but what was his surprise when, in place of thedarkness and silence he expected, he found the church brilliantlylighted, and a crowd of people sitting round a table playing cards. Hansfelt no fear at this strange sight, or was prudent enough to hide it ifhe did, and, going up to the table, sat down amongst the players. One ofthem looked up and asked, 'My friend, what are you doing here?' and Hansgazed at him for a moment, then laughed and answered, 'Well, if anybodyhas a right to put that question, it is I! And if _I_ do not put it, itwill certainly be wiser for you not to do so!'Then he picked up some cards, and played with the unknown men as ifhe had known them all his life. The luck was on his side, and soon themoney of the other gamblers found its way from their pockets into his.On the stroke of midnight the cock crew, and in an instant lights,table, cards, and people all had vanished, and Hans was left alone.He groped about for some time, till he found the staircase in the tower,and then began to feel his way up the steps.On the first landing a glimmer of light came through a slit in the wall,and he saw a tiny man sitting there, without a head. 'Ho! ho! my littlefellow, what are you doing there?' asked Hans, and, without waiting foran answer, gave him a kick which sent him flying down the stairs. Thenhe climbed higher still, and finding as he went dumb watchers sitting onevery landing, treated them as he had done the first.At last he reached the top, and as he paused for a moment to lookround him he saw another headless man cowering in the very bell itself,waiting till Hans should seize the bell pull in order to strike him ablow with the clapper, which would soon have made an end of him.'Stop, my little friend!' cried Hans. 'That is not part of the bargain!Perhaps you saw how your comrades walked down stairs, and you are goingafter them. But as you are in the highest place you shall make a moredignified exit, and follow them through the window!'With these words he began to climb the ladder, in order to take thelittle man from the bell and carry out his threat.At this the dwarf cried out imploringly, 'Oh, brother! spare my life,and I promise that neither I nor my comrades will ever trouble you anymore. I am small and weak, but who knows whether some day I shall not beable to reward you.''You wretched little shrimp,' replied Hans, 'a great deal of goodyour gratitude is likely to do me! But as I happen to be feeling in acheerful mood to night I will let you have your life. But take care howyou come across me again, or you may not escape so easily!'The headless man thanked him humbly, slid hastily down the bell rope,and ran down the steps of the tower as if he had left a fire behind him.Then Hans began to ring lustily.When the minister heard the sound of the midnight bells he wonderedgreatly, but rejoiced that he had at last found some one to whom hecould trust this duty. Hans rang the bells for some time, then went tothe hay loft, and fell fast asleep.Now it was the custom of the minister to get up very early, and to goround to make sure that the men were all at their work. This morningeveryone was in his place except Hans, and no one knew anything abouthim. Nine o'clock came, and no Hans, but when eleven struck the ministerbegan to fear that he had vanished like the ringers who had gone beforehim. When, however, the servants all gathered round the table fordinner, Hans at last made his appearance stretching himself and yawning.'Where have you been all this time?' asked the minister.'Asleep,' said Hans.'Asleep!' exclaimed the minister in astonishment. 'You don't mean totell me that you can go on sleeping till mid day?''That is exactly what I do mean,' replied Hans. 'If one works in thenight one must sleep in the day, just as if one works in the day onesleeps in the night. If you can find somebody else to ring the bells atmidnight I am ready to begin work at dawn. but if you want me to ringthem I must go on sleeping till noon at the very earliest.'The minister tried to argue the point with him, but at length thefollowing agreement was come to. Hans was to give up the ringing, andwas to work like the rest from sunrise to sunset, with the exception ofan hour after breakfast and an hour after dinner, when he might go tosleep. 'But, of course,' added the minister carelessly, 'it may happennow and then, especially in winter, when the days are short, that youwill have to work a little longer, to get something finished.''Not at all!' answered Hans. 'Unless I were to leave off work earlierin summer, I will not do a stroke more than I have promised, and that isfrom dawn to dark. so you know what you have to expect.'A few weeks later the minister was asked to attend a christening in theneighbouring town. He bade Hans come with him, but, as the town was onlya few hours' ride from where he lived, the minister was much surprisedto see Hans come forth laden with a bag containing food.'What are you taking that for?' asked the minister. 'We shall be therebefore dark.''Who knows?' replied Hans. 'Many things may happen to delay our journey,and I need not remind you of our contract that the moment the sun setsI cease to be your servant. If we don't reach the town while it is stilldaylight I shall leave you to shift for yourself.'The minister thought he was joking, and made no further remark. But whenthey had left the village behind them, and had ridden a few miles, theyfound that snow had fallen during the night, and had been blown by thewind into drifts. This hindered their progress, and by the time they hadentered the thick wood which lay between them and their destinationthe sun was already touching the tops of the trees. The horses ploughedtheir way slowly through the deep soft snow and as they went Hans keptturning to look at the sun, which lay at their backs.'Is there anything behind you?' asked the minister. 'Or what is it youare always turning round for?''I turn round because I have no eyes in the back of my neck,' said Hans.'Cease talking nonsense,' replied the minister, 'and give all your mindto getting us to the town before nightfall.'Hans did not answer, but rode on steadily, though every now and then hecast a glance over his shoulder.When they arrived in the middle of the wood the sun sank altogether.Then Hans reined up his horse, took his knapsack, and jumped out of thesledge.'What are you doing? Are you mad?' asked the minister, but Hans answeredquietly, 'The sun is set and my work is over, and I am going to camphere for the night.'In vain the master prayed and threatened, and promised Hans a largereward if he would only drive him on. The young man was not to be moved.'Are you not ashamed to urge me to break my word?' said he. 'If you wantto reach the town to night you must go alone. The hour of my freedom hasstruck, and I cannot go with you.''My good Hans,' entreated the minister, 'I really ought not to leaveyou here. Consider what danger you would be in! Yonder, as you see, agallows is set up, and two evil doers are hanging on it. You could notpossibly sleep with such ghastly neighbours.''Why not?' asked Hans. 'Those gallows birds hang high in the air, andmy camp will be on the ground. we shall have nothing to do with eachother.' As he spoke, he turned his back on the minister, and went hisway.There was no help for it, and the minister had to push on by himself, ifhe expected to arrive in time for the christening. His friends weremuch surprised to see him drive up without a coachman, and thought someaccident had happened. But when he told them of his conversation withHans they did not know which was the most foolish, master or man.It would have mattered little to Hans had he known what they were sayingor thinking of him. He satisfied his hunger with the food he had in hisknapsack, lit his pipe, pitched his tent under the boughs of a tree,wrapped himself in his furs, and went sound asleep. After some hours,he was awakened by a sudden noise, and sat up and looked about him.The moon was shining brightly above his head, and close by stood twoheadless dwarfs, talking angrily. At the sight of Hans the little dwarfscried out:'It is he! It is he!' and one of them stepping nearer exclaimed, 'Ah,my old friend! it is a lucky chance that has brought us here. My bonesstill ache from my fall down the steps of the tower. I dare say youhave not forgotten that night! Now it is the turn of your bones. Hi!comrades, make haste! make haste!'Like a swarm of midges, a host of tiny headless creatures seemed tospring straight out of the ground, and every one was armed with a club.Although they were so small, yet there were such numbers of them andthey struck so hard that even a strong man could do nothing againstthem. Hans thought his last hour was come, when just as the fight was atthe hottest another little dwarf arrived on the scene.'Hold, comrades!' he shouted, turning to the attacking party. 'This manonce did me a service, and I am his debtor. When I was in his power hegranted me my life. And even if he did throw you downstairs, well, awarm bath soon cured your bruises, so you must just forgive him and goquietly home.'The headless dwarfs listened to his words and disappeared as suddenly asthey had come. As soon as Hans recovered himself a little he looked athis rescuer, and saw he was the dwarf he had found seated in the churchbell.'Ah!' said the dwarf, seating himself quietly under the tree. 'Youlaughed at me when I told you that some day I might do you a good turn.Now you see I was right, and perhaps you will learn for the future notto despise any creature, however small.''I thank you from my heart,' answered Hans. 'My bones are still sorefrom their blows, and had it not been for you I should indeed have faredbadly.''I have almost paid my debt,' went on the little man, 'but as you havesuffered already, I will do more, and give you a piece of information.You need not remain any longer in the service of that stingy minister,but when you get home to morrow go at once to the north corner of thechurch, and there you will find a large stone built into the wall, butnot cemented like the rest. The day after to morrow the moon is full,and at midnight you must go to the spot and get the stone out of thewall with a pickaxe. Under the stone lies a great treasure, which hasbeen hidden there in time of war. Besides church plate, you will findbags of money, which have been lying in this place for over a hundredyears, and no one knows to whom it all belongs. A third of this moneyyou must give to the poor, but the rest you may keep for yourself.' Ashe finished, the cocks in the village crowed, and the little man wasnowhere to be seen. Hans found that his limbs no longer pained him, andlay for some time thinking of the hidden treasure. Towards morning hefell asleep.The sun was high in the heavens when his master returned from the town.'Hans,' said he, 'what a fool you were not to come with me yesterday! Iwas well feasted and entertained, and I have money in my pocket into thebargain,' he went on, rattling some coins while he spoke, to make Hansunderstand how much he had lost.'Ah, sir,' replied Hans calmly, 'in order to have gained so much moneyyou must have lain awake all night, but I have earned a hundred timesthat amount while I was sleeping soundly.''How did you manage that?' asked the minister eagerly, but Hansanswered, 'It is only fools who boast of their farthings. wise men takecare to hide their crowns.'They drove home, and Hans neglected none of his duties, but put up thehorses and gave them their food before going to the church corner, wherehe found the loose stone, exactly in the place described by the dwarf.Then he returned to his work.The first night of the full moon, when the whole village was asleep, hestole out, armed with a pickaxe, and with much difficulty succeeded indislodging the stone from its place. Sure enough, there was the hole,and in the hole lay the treasure, exactly as the little man had said.The following Sunday he handed over the third part to the village poor,and informed the minister that he wished to break his bond ofservice. As, however, he did not claim any wages, the minister made noobjections, but allowed him to do as he wished. So Hans went his way,bought himself a large house, and married a young wife, and livedhappily and prosperously to the end of his days.(Ehstnische Marchen.)