Pinocchio is arrested.Going like the wind, Pinocchio took but a very short time to reach theshore. He glanced all about him, but there was no sign of a Shark. Thesea was as smooth as glass."Hey there, boys! Where's that Shark?" he asked, turning to hisplaymates."He may have gone for his breakfast," said one of them, laughing."Or, perhaps, he went to bed for a little nap," said another, laughingalso.From the answers and the laughter which followed them, Pinocchiounderstood that the boys had played a trick on him."What now?" he said angrily to them. "What's the joke?""Oh, the joke's on you!" cried his tormentors, laughing more heartilythan ever, and dancing gayly around the Marionette."And that is ?""That we have made you stay out of school to come with us. Aren't youashamed of being such a goody goody, and of studying so hard? You neverhave a bit of enjoyment.""And what is it to you, if I do study?""What does the teacher think of us, you mean?""Why?""Don't you see? If you study and we don't, we pay for it. After all,it's only fair to look out for ourselves.""What do you want me to do?""Hate school and books and teachers, as we all do. They are your worstenemies, you know, and they like to make you as unhappy as they can.""And if I go on studying, what will you do to me?""You'll pay for it!""Really, you amuse me," answered the Marionette, nodding his head."Hey, Pinocchio," cried the tallest of them all, "that will do. We aretired of hearing you bragging about yourself, you little turkey cock!You may not be afraid of us, but remember we are not afraid of you,either! You are alone, you know, and we are seven.""Like the seven sins," said Pinocchio, still laughing."Did you hear that? He has insulted us all. He has called us sins.""Pinocchio, apologize for that, or look out!""Cuck oo!" said the Marionette, mocking them with his thumb to hisnose."You'll be sorry!""Cuck oo!""We'll whip you soundly!""Cuck oo!""You'll go home with a broken nose!""Cuck oo!""Very well, then! Take that, and keep it for your supper," called outthe boldest of his tormentors.And with the words, he gave Pinocchio a terrible blow on the head.Pinocchio answered with another blow, and that was the signal for thebeginning of the fray. In a few moments, the fight raged hot and heavyon both sides.Pinocchio, although alone, defended himself bravely. With those twowooden feet of his, he worked so fast that his opponents kept at arespectful distance. Wherever they landed, they left their painful markand the boys could only run away and howl.Enraged at not being able to fight the Marionette at close quarters,they started to throw all kinds of books at him. Readers, geographies,histories, grammars flew in all directions. But Pinocchio was keen ofeye and swift of movement, and the books only passed over his head,landed in the sea, and disappeared.The fish, thinking they might be good to eat, came to the top of thewater in great numbers. Some took a nibble, some took a bite, but nosooner had they tasted a page or two, than they spat them out with a wryface, as if to say:"What a horrid taste! Our own food is so much better!"Meanwhile, the battle waxed more and more furious. At the noise, a largeCrab crawled slowly out of the water and, with a voice that sounded likea trombone suffering from a cold, he cried out:"Stop fighting, you rascals! These battles between boys rarely end well.Trouble is sure to come to you!"Poor Crab! He might as well have spoken to the wind. Instead oflistening to his good advice, Pinocchio turned to him and said asroughly as he knew how:"Keep quiet, ugly Gab! It would be better for you to chew a few coughdrops to get rid of that cold you have. Go to bed and sleep! You willfeel better in the morning."In the meantime, the boys, having used all their books, looked aroundfor new ammunition. Seeing Pinocchio's bundle lying idle near by, theysomehow managed to get hold of it.One of the books was a very large volume, an arithmetic text, heavilybound in leather. It was Pinocchio's pride. Among all his books, heliked that one the best.Thinking it would make a fine missile, one of the boys took hold of itand threw it with all his strength at Pinocchio's head. But instead ofhitting the Marionette, the book struck one of the other boys, who, aspale as a ghost, cried out faintly: "Oh, Mother, help! I'm dying!" andfell senseless to the ground.At the sight of that pale little corpse, the boys were so frightenedthat they turned tail and ran. In a few moments, all had disappeared.All except Pinocchio. Although scared to death by the horror of whathad been done, he ran to the sea and soaked his handkerchief in the coolwater and with it bathed the head of his poor little schoolmate. Sobbingbitterly, he called to him, saying:"Eugene! My poor Eugene! Open your eyes and look at me! Why don't youanswer? I was not the one who hit you, you know. Believe me, I didn'tdo it. Open your eyes, Eugene? If you keep them shut, I'll die, too.Oh, dear me, how shall I ever go home now? How shall I ever look at mylittle mother again? What will happen to me? Where shall I go? Whereshall I hide? Oh, how much better it would have been, a thousand timesbetter, if only I had gone to school! Why did I listen to those boys?They always were a bad influence! And to think that the teacher had toldme and my mother, too! 'Beware of bad company!' That's what she said.But I'm stubborn and proud. I listen, but always I do as I wish. Andthen I pay. I've never had a moment's peace since I've been born! Oh,dear! What will become of me? What will become of me?"Pinocchio went on crying and moaning and beating his head. Again andagain he called to his little friend, when suddenly he heard heavy stepsapproaching.He looked up and saw two tall Carabineers near him."What are you doing stretched out on the ground?" they asked Pinocchio."I'm helping this schoolfellow of mine.""Has he fainted?""I should say so," said one of the Carabineers, bending to look atEugene. "This boy has been wounded on the temple. Who has hurt him?""Not I," stammered the Marionette, who had hardly a breath left in hiswhole body."If it wasn't you, who was it, then?""Not I," repeated Pinocchio."And with what was he wounded?""With this book," and the Marionette picked up the arithmetic text toshow it to the officer."And whose book is this?""Mine.""Enough.""Not another word! Get up as quickly as you can and come along with us.""But I ""Come with us!""But I am innocent.""Come with us!"Before starting out, the officers called out to several fishermenpassing by in a boat and said to them:"Take care of this little fellow who has been hurt. Take him home andbind his wounds. Tomorrow we'll come after him."They then took hold of Pinocchio and, putting him between them, said tohim in a rough voice: "March! And go quickly, or it will be the worsefor you!"They did not have to repeat their words. The Marionette walked swiftlyalong the road to the village. But the poor fellow hardly knew whathe was about. He thought he had a nightmare. He felt ill. His eyes saweverything double, his legs trembled, his tongue was dry, and, try as hemight, he could not utter a single word. Yet, in spite of this numbnessof feeling, he suffered keenly at the thought of passing under thewindows of his good little Fairy's house. What would she say on seeinghim between two Carabineers?They had just reached the village, when a sudden gust of wind blew offPinocchio's cap and made it go sailing far down the street."Would you allow me," the Marionette asked the Carabineers, "to runafter my cap?""Very well, go. but hurry."The Marionette went, picked up his cap but instead of putting it on hishead, he stuck it between his teeth and then raced toward the sea.He went like a bullet out of a gun.The Carabineers, judging that it would be very difficult to catch him,sent a large Mastiff after him, one that had won first prize in all thedog races. Pinocchio ran fast and the Dog ran faster. At so much noise,the people hung out of the windows or gathered in the street, anxious tosee the end of the contest. But they were disappointed, for the Dog andPinocchio raised so much dust on the road that, after a few moments, itwas impossible to see them.