Long, long ago, as far back as the time when animals spoke, there liveda community of cats in a deserted house they had taken possession of notfar from a large town. They had everything they could possibly desirefor their comfort, they were well fed and well lodged, and if by anychance an unlucky mouse was stupid enough to venture in their way, theycaught it, not to eat it, but for the pure pleasure of catching it. Theold people of the town related how they had heard their parents speakof a time when the whole country was so overrun with rats and micethat there was not so much as a grain of corn nor an ear of maize to begathered in the fields. and it might be out of gratitude to the cats whohad rid the country of these plagues that their descendants were allowedto live in peace. No one knows where they got the money to pay foreverything, nor who paid it, for all this happened so very long ago.But one thing is certain, they were rich enough to keep a servant. forthough they lived very happily together, and did not scratch nor fightmore than human beings would have done, they were not clever enough todo the housework themselves, and preferred at all events to have someone to cook their meat, which they would have scorned to eat raw. Notonly were they very difficult to please about the housework, but mostwomen quickly tired of living alone with only cats for companions,consequently they never kept a servant long. and it had become a sayingin the town, when anyone found herself reduced to her last penny: 'Iwill go and live with the cats,' and so many a poor woman actually did.Now Lizina was not happy at home, for her mother, who was a widow, wasmuch fonder of her elder daughter. so that often the younger one faredvery badly, and had not enough to eat, while the elder could haveeverything she desired, and if Lizina dared to complain she was certainto have a good beating.At last the day came when she was at the end of her courage andpatience, and exclaimed to her mother and sister:'As you hate me so much you will be glad to be rid of me, so I am goingto live with the cats!''Be off with you!' cried her mother, seizing an old broom handle frombehind the door. Poor Lizina did not wait to be told twice, but ran offat once and never stopped till she reached the door of the cats' house.Their cook had left them that very morning, with her face all scratched,the result of such a quarrel with the head of the house that he had verynearly scratched out her eyes. Lizina therefore was warmly welcomed,and she set to work at once to prepare the dinner, not without manymisgivings as to the tastes of the cats, and whether she would be ableto satisfy them.Going to and fro about her work, she found herself frequently hinderedby a constant succession of cats who appeared one after another in thekitchen to inspect the new servant. she had one in front of herfeet, another perched on the back of her chair while she peeled thevegetables, a third sat on the table beside her, and five or six othersprowled about among the pots and pans on the shelves against the wall.The air resounded with their purring, which meant that they were pleasedwith their new maid, but Lizina had not yet learned to understandtheir language, and often she did not know what they wanted her to do.However, as she was a good, kindhearted girl, she set to work to pickup the little kittens which tumbled about on the floor, she patchedup quarrels, and nursed on her lap a big tabby the oldest of thecommunity which had a lame paw. All these kindnesses could hardly failto make a favourable impression on the cats, and it was even betterafter a while, when she had had time to grow accustomed to their strangeways. Never had the house been kept so clean, the meats so well served,nor the sick cats so well cared for. After a time they had a visit froman old cat, whom they called their father, who lived by himself in abarn at the top of the hill, and came down from time to time to inspectthe little colony. He too was much taken with Lizina, and inquired, onfirst seeing her: 'Are you well served by this nice, black eyed littleperson?' and the cats answered with one voice: 'Oh, yes, Father Gatto,we have never had so good a servant!'At each of his visits the answer was always the same. but after a timethe old cat, who was very observant, noticed that the little maid hadgrown to look sadder and sadder. 'What is the matter, my child has anyone been unkind to you?' he asked one day, when he found her crying inher kitchen. She burst into tears and answered between her sobs: 'Oh,no! they are all very good to me. but I long for news from home, and Ipine to see my mother and my sister.'Old Gatto, being a sensible old cat, understood the little servant'sfeelings. 'You shall go home,' he said, 'and you shall not come backhere unless you please. But first you must be rewarded for all your kindservices to my children. Follow me down into the inner cellar, where youhave never yet been, for I always keep it locked and carry the key awaywith me.'Lizina looked round her in astonishment as they went down into thegreat vaulted cellar underneath the kitchen. Before her stood the bigearthenware water jars, one of which contained oil, the other a liquidshining like gold. 'In which of these jars shall I dip you?' askedFather Gatto, with a grin that showed all his sharp white teeth, whilehis moustaches stood out straight on either side of his face. The littlemaid looked at the two jars from under her long dark lashes: 'In the oiljar,' she answered timidly, thinking to herself: 'I could not ask to bebathed in gold.'But Father Gatto replied: 'No, no. you have deserved something betterthan that.' And seizing her in his strong paws he plunged her into theliquid gold. Wonder of wonders! when Lizina came out of the jar sheshone from head to foot like the sun in the heavens on a fine summer'sday. Her pretty pink cheeks and long black hair alone kept their naturalcolour, otherwise she had become like a statue of pure gold. FatherGatto purred loudly with satisfaction. 'Go home,' he said, 'and seeyour mother and sisters. but take care if you hear the cock crow to turntowards it. if on the contrary the ass brays, you must look the otherway.'The little maid, having gratefully kissed the white paw of the old cat,set off for home. but just as she got near her mother's house the cockcrowed, and quickly she turned towards it. Immediately a beautifulgolden star appeared on her forehead, crowning her glossy black hair.At the same time the ass began to bray, but Lizina took care not to lookover the fence into the field where the donkey was feeding. Hermother and sister, who were in front of their house, uttered cries ofadmiration and astonishment when they saw her, and their cries becamestill louder when Lizina, taking her handkerchief from her pocket, drewout also a handful of gold.For some days the mother and her two daughters lived very happilytogether, for Lizina had given them everything she had brought awayexcept her golden clothing, for that would not come off, in spite of allthe efforts of her sister, who was madly jealous of her good fortune.The golden star, too, could not be removed from her forehead. But allthe gold pieces she drew from her pockets had found their way to hermother and sister.'I will go now and see what I can get out of the pussies,' said Peppina,the elder girl, one morning, as she took Lizina's basket and fastenedher pockets into her own skirt. 'I should like some of the cats' goldfor myself,' she thought, as she left her mother's house before the sunrose.The cat colony had not yet taken another servant, for they knew theycould never get one to replace Lizina, whose loss they had not yetceased to mourn. When they heard that Peppina was her sister, they allran to meet her. 'She is not the least like her,' the kittens whisperedamong themselves.'Hush, be quiet!' the older cats said. 'all servants cannot be pretty.'No, decidedly she was not at all like Lizina. Even the most reasonableand large minded of the cats soon acknowledged that.The very first day she shut the kitchen door in the face of thetom cats who used to enjoy watching Lizina at her work, and a young andmischievous cat who jumped in by the open kitchen window and alighted onthe table got such a blow with the rolling pin that he squalled for anhour.With every day that passed the household became more and more aware ofits misfortune.The work was as badly done as the servant was surly and disagreeable.in the corners of the rooms there were collected heaps of dust. spiders'webs hung from the ceilings and in front of the window panes. the bedswere hardly ever made, and the feather beds, so beloved by the old andfeeble cats, had never once been shaken since Lizina left the house.At Father Gatto's next visit he found the whole colony in a state ofuproar.'Caesar has one paw so badly swollen that it looks as if it werebroken,' said one. 'Peppina kicked him with her great wooden shoes on.Hector has an abscess in his back where a wooden chair was flung at him.and Agrippina's three little kittens have died of hunger beside theirmother, because Peppina forgot them in their basket up in the attic.There is no putting up with the creature do send her away, FatherGatto! Lizina herself would not be angry with us. she must know verywell what her sister is like.''Come here,' said Father Gatto, in his most severe tones to Peppina. Andhe took her down into the cellar and showed her the same two greatjars that he had showed Lizina. 'In which of these shall I dip you?' heasked. and she made haste to answer: 'In the liquid gold,' for she wasno more modest than she was good and kind.Father Gatto's yellow eyes darted fire. 'You have not deserved it,' heuttered, in a voice like thunder, and seizing her he flung her intothe jar of oil, where she was nearly suffocated. When she came to thesurface screaming and struggling, the vengeful cat seized her againand rolled her in the ash heap on the floor. then when she rose, dirty,blinded, and disgusting to behold, he thrust her from the door, saying:'Begone, and when you meet a braying ass be careful to turn your headtowards it.'Stumbling and raging, Peppina set off for home, thinking herselffortunate to find a stick by the wayside with which to support herself.She was within sight of her mother's house when she heard in the meadowon the right, the voice of a donkey loudly braying. Quickly she turnedher head towards it, and at the same time put her hand up to herforehead, where, waving like a plume, was a donkey's tail. She ran hometo her mother at the top of her speed, yelling with rage and despair.and it took Lizina two hours with a big basin of hot water and two cakesof soap to get rid of the layer of ashes with which Father Gatto hadadorned her. As for the donkey's tail, it was impossible to get rid ofthat. it was as firmly fixed on her forehead as was the golden star onLizina's. Their mother was furious. She first beat Lizina unmercifullywith the broom, then she took her to the mouth of the well and loweredher into it, leaving her at the bottom weeping and crying for help.Before this happened, however, the king's son in passing the mother'shouse had seen Lizina sitting sewing in the parlour, and had beendazzled by her beauty. After coming back two or three times, he at lastventured to approach the window and to whisper in the softest voice:'Lovely maiden, will you be my bride?' and she had answered: 'I will.'Next morning, when the prince arrived to claim his bride, he found herwrapped in a large white veil. 'It is so that maidens are received fromtheir parents' hands,' said the mother, who hoped to make the king's sonmarry Peppina in place of her sister, and had fastened the donkey's tailround her head like a lock of hair under the veil. The prince was youngand a little timid, so he made no objections, and seated Peppina in thecarriage beside him.Their way led past the old house inhabited by the cats, who were all atthe window, for the report had got about that the prince was going tomarry the most beautiful maiden in the world, on whose forehead shone agolden star, and they knew that this could only be their adored Lizina.As the carriage slowly passed in front of the old house, where catsfrom all parts of world seemed to be gathered a song burst from everythroat:Mew, mew, mew! Prince, look quick behind you!In the well is fair Lizina,And you've got nothing but Peppina.When he heard this the coachman, who understood the cat's languagebetter than the prince, his master, stopped his horses and asked:'Does your highness know what the grimalkins are saying?' and the songbroke forth again louder than ever.With a turn of his hand the prince threw back the veil, and discoveredthe puffed up, swollen face of Peppina, with the donkey's tail twistedround her head. 'Ah, traitress!' he exclaimed, and ordering the horsesto be turned round, he drove the elder daughter, quivering with rage, tothe old woman who had sought to deceive him. With his hand on the hiltof his sword he demanded Lizina in so terrific a voice that the motherhastened to the well to draw her prisoner out. Lizina's clothing and herstar shone so brilliantly that when the prince led her home to the king,his father, the whole palace was lit up. Next day they were married, andlived happy ever after. and all the cats, headed by old Father Gatto,were present at the wedding.