A bear and a fox had once bought between them a tub of butter, whichthey intended to keep till Christmas, and, therefore, hid it under a thick pinebush. They then went a little distance and lay down on a sunny bank tosleep.When they had lain some time, the fox started up and cried out,"Yes," and ran away towards the butter tub, out of which he ate a goodthird. When he returned the bear asked him where he had been, as he lookedso greasy about the mouth.He said, "What do you think of my being invited to a christening?""Oh, indeed! What is the name of the child?" asked the bear."Begun Upon," answered the fox.Thereupon they lay down to sleep again. In a little while the foxsprang up again and cried out, "Yes," and ran to the butter tub. This timehe also ate a good portion. When he came back, and the bear again askedwhere he had been, he answered, "Oh, would you believe it? I have againbeen invited to a christening.""What is the name of the child?" asked the bear."Half Eaten," answered the fox.The bear thought that was a strange name, though he did not wonder longabout it, but gave a gape and went to sleep again. They had not lain longwhen the same took place as before. The fox sprang up and cried out,"Yes," and ran to the butter tub, and this time he ate the remainder. Whenhe came back, he had been once more to a christening, and when the bearinquired the name of the child, he answered, "Licked to the Bottom!"They now lay down and slept a long time.At length they agreed to go and look after their butter, and when theyfound it all eaten up, the bear accused the fox, and the fox accused thebear, of having eaten it. One said that the other must have been to thebutter tub while he slept."Well, well!" said Reynard. "We shall soon see which of us two hasstolen the butter. Let us both now lie down on this sunny bank, and theone whose tail is the greasiest when we wake, must be the one who hasstolen it."The bear was willing to undergo the ordeal. So, feeling conscious ofhis innocence, and that he had not even tasted the butter, he lay down tohave a good sound sleep in the sun. But Reynard, instead of sleeping,crept softly to the butter tub, and got a little that still remainedbetween the staves. Then sneaking gently back to the bear, he rubbed histail with it, and lay down to sleep as if nothing had happened. When theyboth woke, the sun had melted the butter on the bear's tail, so that hewas proved to be the one that had eaten the butter.