THERE was once upon a time a husbandman who had three sons. He had noproperty to bequeath to them, and no means of putting them in the way ofgetting a living, and did not know what to do, so he said that they hadhis leave to take to anything they most fancied, and go to any placethey best liked. He would gladly accompany them for some part of theirway, he said, and that he did. He went with them till they came to aplace where three roads met, and there each of them took his own way,and the father bade them farewell and returned to his own home again.What became of the two elder I have never been able to discover, but theyoungest went both far and wide.It came to pass, one night, as he was going through a great wood, thata terrible storm came on. It blew so hard and rained so heavily that hecould scarcely keep his eyes open, and before he was aware of it he hadgot quite out of the track, and could neither find road nor path. Buthe went on, and at last he saw a light far away in the wood. Then hethought he must try and get to it, and after a long, long time he didreach it. There was a large house, and the fire was burning so brightlyinside that he could tell that the people were not in bed. So he wentin, and inside there was an old woman who was busy about some work.'Good evening, mother!' said the youth.'Good evening!' said the old woman.'Hutetu! it is terrible weather outside to night,' said the youngfellow.'Indeed it is,' said the old woman.'Can I sleep here, and have shelter for the night?' asked the youth.'It wouldn't be good for you to sleep here,' said the old hag, 'for ifthe people of the house come home and find you, they will kill both youand me.''What kind of people are they then, who dwell here?' said the youth.'Oh! robbers, and rabble of that sort,' said the old woman. 'they stoleme away when I was little, and I have had to keep house for them eversince.''I still think I will go to bed, all the same,' said the youth. 'Nomatter what happens, I'll not go out to night in such weather as this.''Well, then, it will be the worse for yourself,' said the old woman.The young man lay down in a bed which stood near, but he dared not go tosleep: and it was better that he didn't, for the robbers came, and theold woman said that a young fellow who was a stranger had come there,and she had not been able to get him to go away again.'Did you see if he had any money?' said the robbers.'He's not one to have money, he is a tramp! If he has a few clothes tohis back, that is all.'Then the robbers began to mutter to each other apart about what theyshould do with him, whether they should murder him, or what else theyshould do. In the meantime the boy got up and began to talk to them, andask them if they did not want a man servant, for he could find pleasureenough in serving them.'Yes,' said they, 'if you have a mind to take to the trade that wefollow, you may have a place here.''It's all the same to me what trade I follow,' said the youth, 'for whenI came away from home my father gave me leave to take to any trade Ifancied.''Have you a fancy for stealing, then?' said the robbers.'Yes,' said the boy, for he thought that was a trade which would nottake long to learn.Not very far off there dwelt a man who had three oxen, one of which hewas to take to the town to sell. The robbers had heard of this, so theytold the youth that if he were able to steal the ox from him on theway, without his knowing, and without doing him any harm, he should haveleave to be their servant man. So the youth set off, taking with him apretty shoe with a silver buckle that was lying about in the house. Heput this in the road by which the man must go with his ox, and then wentinto the wood and hid himself under a bush. When the man came up he atonce saw the shoe.'That's a brave shoe,' said he. 'If I had but the fellow to it, I wouldcarry it home with me, and then I should put my old woman into a goodhumour for once.'For he had a wife who was so cross and ill tempered that the timebetween the beatings she gave him was very short. But then he bethoughthimself that he could do nothing with one shoe if he had not the fellowto it, so he journeyed onwards and let it lie where it was. Then theyouth picked up the shoe and hurried off away through the wood as fastas he was able, to get in front of the man, and then put the shoe in theroad before him again.When the man came with the ox and saw the shoe, he was quite vexed athaving been so stupid as to leave the fellow to it lying where it was,instead of bringing it on with him.'I will just run back again and fetch it now,' he said to himself, 'andthen I shall take back a pair of good shoes to the old woman, and shemay perhaps throw a kind word to me for once.'So he went and searched and searched for the other shoe for a long, longtime, but no shoe was to be found, and at last he was forced to go backwith the one which he had.In the meantime the youth had taken the ox and gone off with it. Whenthe man got there and found that his ox was gone, he began to weep andwail, for he was afraid that when his old woman got to know she would bethe death of him. But all at once it came into his head to go home andget the other ox, and drive it to the town, and take good care that hisold wife knew nothing about it. So he did this. he went home and tookthe ox without his wife's knowing about it, and went on his way to thetown with it. But the robbers they knew it well, because they got outtheir magic. So they told the youth that if he could take this ox alsowithout the man knowing anything about it, and without doing him anyhurt, he should then be on an equality with them.'Well, that will not be a very hard thing to do,' thought the youth.This time he took with him a rope and put it under his arms and tiedhimself up to a tree, which hung over the road that the man would haveto take. So the man came with his ox, and when he saw the body hangingthere he felt a little queer.'What a hard lot yours must have been to make you hang yourself!' saidhe. 'Ah, well! you may hang there for me. I can't breathe life into youagain.'So on he went with his ox. Then the youth sprang down from the tree, ranby a short cut and got before him, and once more hung himself up on atree in the road before the man.'How I should like to know if you really were so sick at heart that youhanged yourself there, or if it is only a hobgoblin that's before me!'said the man. 'Ah, well! you may hang there for me, whether you are ahobgoblin or not,' and on he went with his ox.Once more the youth did just as he had done twice already. jumped downfrom the tree, ran by a short cut through the wood, and again hangedhimself in the very middle of the road before him.But when the man once more saw this he said to himself, 'What a badbusiness this is! Can they all have been so heavy hearted that theyhave all three hanged themselves? No, I can't believe that it isanything but witchcraft! But I will know the truth,' he said. 'if thetwo others are still hanging there it is true but if they are not it'snothing else but witchcraft.'So he tied up his ox and ran back to see if they really were hangingthere. While he was going, and looking up at every tree as he went,the youth leapt down and took his ox and went off with it. Any one mayeasily imagine what a fury the man fell into when he came back and sawthat his ox was gone. He wept and he raged, but at last he took comfortand told himself that the best thing to do was to go home and take thethird ox, without letting his wife know anything about it, and then tryto sell it so well that he got a good sum of money for it. So he wenthome and took the third ox, and drove it off without his wife knowinganything about it. But the robbers knew all about it, and they told theyouth that if he could steal this as he had stolen the two others, heshould be master of the whole troop. So the youth set out and went tothe wood, and when the man was coming along with the ox he began tobellow loudly, just like a great ox somewhere inside the wood. When theman heard that he was right glad, for he fancied he recognised the voiceof his big bullock, and thought that now he should find both of themagain. So he tied up the third, and ran away off the road to look forthem in the wood. In the meantime the youth went away with the third ox.When the man returned and found that he had lost that too, he fell intosuch a rage that there was no bounds to it. He wept and lamented, andfor many days he did not dare to go home again, for he was afraid thatthe old woman would slay him outright. The robbers, also, were not verywell pleased at this, for they were forced to own that the youth was atthe head of them all. So one day they made up their minds to set to workto do something which it was not in his power to accomplish, and theyall took to the road together, and left him at home alone. When theywere well out of the house, the first thing that he did was to drive theoxen out on the road, whereupon they all ran home again to the man fromwhom he had stolen them, and right glad was the husbandman to see them.Then he brought out all the horses the robbers had, and loaded them withthe most valuable things which he could find vessels of gold and ofsilver, and clothes and other magnificent things and then he told theold woman to greet the robbers from him and thank them from him, andsay that he had gone away, and that they would have a great deal ofdifficulty in finding him again, and with that he drove the horses outof the courtyard. After a long, long time he came to the road on whichhe was travelling when he came to the robbers. And when he had got verynear home, and was in sight of the house where his father lived, he puton a uniform which he had found among the things he had taken from therobbers, and which was made just like a general's, and drove into theyard just as if he were a great man. Then he entered the house and askedif he could find a lodging there.'No, indeed you can't!' said his father. 'How could I possibly be ableto lodge such a great gentleman as you? It is all that I can do to findclothes and bedding for myself, and wretched they are.''You were always a hard man,' said the youth, 'and hard you are still ifyou refuse to let your own son come into your house.''Are you my son?' said the man.'Do you not know me again then?' said the youth.Then he recognised him and said, 'But what trade have you taken to thathas made you such a great man in so short a time?''Oh, that I will tell you,' answered the youth. 'You said that I mighttake to anything I liked, so I apprenticed myself to some thieves androbbers, and now I have served my time and have become Master Thief.'Now the Governor of the province lived by his father's cottage, and thisGovernor had such a large house and so much money that he did not evenknow how much it was, and he had a daughter too who was both pretty anddainty, and good and wise. So the Master Thief was determined to haveher to wife, and told his father that he was to go to the Governor, andask for his daughter for him. 'If he asks what trade I follow, you maysay that I am a Master Thief,' said he.'I think you must be crazy,' said the man, 'for you can't be in yoursenses if you think of anything so foolish.''You must go to the Governor and beg for his daughter there is nohelp,' said the youth.'But I dare not go to the Governor and say this. He is so rich and hasso much wealth of all kinds,' said the man.'There is no help for it,' said the Master Thief. 'go you must, whetheryou like it or not. If I can't get you to go by using good words, I willsoon make you go with bad ones.'But the man was still unwilling, so the Master Thief followed him,threatening him with a great birch stick, till he went weeping andwailing through the door to the Governor of the province.'Now, my man, and what's amiss with you?' said the Governor.So he told him that he had three sons who had gone away one day, andhow he had given them permission to go where they chose, and take towhatsoever work they fancied. 'Now,' he said, 'the youngest of them hascome home, and has threatened me till I have come to you to ask for yourdaughter for him, and I am to say that he is a Master Thief,' and againthe man fell a weeping and lamenting.'Console yourself, my man,' said the Governor, laughing. 'You may tellhim from me that he must first give me some proof of this. If he cansteal the joint off the spit in the kitchen on Sunday, when every one ofus is watching it, he shall have my daughter. Will you tell him that?'The man did tell him, and the youth thought it would be easy enough todo it. So he set himself to work to catch three hares alive, put themin a bag, clad himself in some old rags so that he looked so poor andwretched that it was quite pitiable to see him, and in this guise onSunday forenoon he sneaked into the passage with his bag, like anybeggar boy. The Governor himself and every one in the house was in thekitchen, keeping watch over the joint. While they were doing this theyouth let one of the hares slip out of his bag, and off it set and beganto run round the yard.'Just look at that hare,' said the people in the kitchen, and wanted togo out and catch it.The Governor saw it too, but said, 'Oh, let it go! it's no use to thinkof catching a hare when it's running away.'It was not long before the youth let another hare out, and the peoplein the kitchen saw this too, and thought that it was the same. So againthey wanted to go out and catch it, but the Governor again told themthat it was of no use to try.Very soon afterwards, however, the youth let slip the third hare, and itset off and ran round and round the courtyard. The people in the kitchensaw this too, and believed that it was still the same hare that wasrunning about, so they wanted to go out and catch it.'It's a remarkably fine hare!' said the Governor. 'Come and let us seeif we can get hold of it.' So out he went, and the others with him, andaway went the hare, and they after it, in real earnest.In the meantime, however, the Master Thief took the joint and ran offwith it, and whether the Governor got any roast meat for his dinner thatday I know not, but I know that he had no roast hare, though he chasedit till he was both hot and tired. At noon came the Priest, and when theGovernor had told him of the trick played by the Master Thief there wasno end to the ridicule he cast on the Governor.'For my part,' said the Priest, 'I can't imagine myself being made afool of by such a fellow as that!''Well, I advise you to be careful,' said the Governor, 'for he may bewith you before you are at all aware.'But the Priest repeated what he had said, and mocked the Governor forhaving allowed himself to be made such a fool of.Later in the afternoon the Master Thief came and wanted to have theGovernor's daughter as he had promised.'You must first give some more samples of your skill,' said theGovernor, trying to speak him fair, 'for what you did to day was no suchvery great thing after all. Couldn't you play off a really good trickon the Priest? for he is sitting inside there and calling me a fool forhaving let myself be taken in by such a fellow as you.''Well, it wouldn't be very hard to do that,' said the Master Thief. Sohe dressed himself up like a bird, and threw a great white sheet overhimself. broke off a goose's wings, and set them on his back. and inthis attire climbed into a great maple tree which stood in the Priest'sgarden. So when the Priest returned home in the evening the youth beganto cry, 'Father Lawrence! Father Lawrence! 'for the Priest was calledFather Lawrence.'Who is calling me?' said the Priest.'I am an angel sent to announce to thee that because of thy piety thoushalt be taken away alive into heaven,' said the Master Thief. 'Wiltthou hold thyself in readiness to travel away next Monday night? forthen will I come and fetch thee, and bear thee away with me in a sack,and thou must lay all thy gold and silver, and whatsoever thou may 'stpossess of this world's wealth, in a heap in thy best parlour.'So Father Lawrence fell down on his knees before the angel and thankedhim, and the following Sunday he preached a farewell sermon, and gaveout that an angel had come down into the large maple tree in his garden,and had announced to him that, because of his righteousness, he shouldbe taken up alive into heaven, and as he thus preached and told themthis everyone in the church, old or young, wept.On Monday night the Master Thief once more came as an angel, and beforethe Priest was put into the sack he fell on his knees and thanked him.but no sooner was the Priest safely inside it than the Master Thiefbegan to drag him away over stocks and stones.'Oh! oh! 'cried the Priest in the sack. 'Where are you taking me?''This is the way to heaven. The way to heaven is not an easy one,' saidthe Master Thief, and dragged him along till he all but killed him.At last he flung him into the Governor's goose house, and the geesebegan to hiss and peck at him, till he felt more dead than alive.'Oh! oh! oh! Where am I now?' asked the Priest.'Now you are in Purgatory,' said the Master Thief, and off he wentand took the gold and the silver and all the precious things which thePriest had laid together in his best parlour.Next morning, when the goose girl came to let out the geese, she heardthe Priest bemoaning himself as he lay in the sack in the goose house.'Oh, heavens! who is that, and what ails you?' said she.'Oh,' said the Priest, 'if you are an angel from heaven do let me outand let me go back to earth again, for no place was ever so bad asthis the little fiends nip me so with their tongs.''I am no angel,' said the girl, and helped the Priest out of the sack.'I only look after the Governor's geese, that's what I do, and they arethe little fiends which have pinched your reverence.''This is the Master Thief's doing! Oh, my gold and my silver and my bestclothes!' shrieked the Priest, and, wild with rage, he ran home so fastthat the goose girl thought he had suddenly gone mad.When the Governor learnt what had happened to the Priest he laughed tillhe nearly killed himself, but when the Master Thief came and wanted tohave his daughter according to promise, he once more gave him nothingbut fine words, and said, 'You must give me one more proof of yourskill, so that I can really judge of your worth. I have twelve horses inmy stable, and I will put twelve stable boys in it, one on each horse.If you are clever enough to steal the horses from under them, I will seewhat I can do for you.''What you set me to do can be done,' said the Master Thief, 'but am Icertain to get your daughter when it is?''Yes. if you can do that I will do my best for you,' said the Governor.So the Master Thief went to a shop, and bought enough brandy to fill twopocket flasks, and he put a sleeping drink into one of these, but intothe other he poured brandy only. Then he engaged eleven men to lie thatnight in hiding behind the Governor's stable. After this, by fair wordsand good payment, he borrowed a ragged gown and a jerkin from an agedwoman, and then, with a staff in his hand and a poke on his back, hehobbled off as evening came on towards the Governor's stable. The stableboys were just watering the horses for the night, and it was quite asmuch as they could do to attend to that.'What on earth do you want here?' said one of them to the old woman.'Oh dear! oh dear! How cold it is!' she said, sobbing, and shiveringwith cold. 'Oh dear! oh dear! it's cold enough to freeze a poor old bodyto death!' and she shivered and shook again, and said, 'For heaven'ssake give me leave to stay here and sit just inside the stable door.''You will get nothing of the kind! Be off this moment! If the Governorwere to catch sight of you here, he would lead us a pretty dance,' saidone.'Oh! what a poor helpless old creature!' said another, who felt sorryfor her. 'That poor old woman can do no harm to anyone. She may sitthere and welcome.'The rest of them thought that she ought not to stay, but while they weredisputing about this and looking after the horses, she crept farther andfarther into the stable, and at last sat down behind the door, and whenonce she was inside no one took any more notice of her.As the night wore on the stable boys found it rather cold work to sitstill on horseback.'Hutetu! But it is fearfully cold!' said one, and began to beat his armsbackwards and forwards across his breast.'Yes, I am so cold that my teeth are chattering,' said another.'If one had but a little tobacco,' said a third.Well, one of them had a little, so they shared it among them, thoughthere was very little for each man, but they chewed it. This was somehelp to them, but very soon they were just as cold as before.'Hutetu!' said one of them, shivering again.'Hutetu!' said the old woman, gnashing her teeth together till theychattered inside her mouth. and then she got out the flask whichcontained nothing but brandy, and her hands trembled so that she shookthe bottle about, and when she drank it made a great gulp in her throat.'What is that you have in your flask, old woman?' asked one of thestable boys.'Oh, it's only a little drop of brandy, your honour,' she said.'Brandy! What! Let me have a drop! Let me have a drop!' screamed all thetwelve at once.'Oh, but what I have is so little,' whimpered the old woman. 'It willnot even wet your mouths.'But they were determined to have it, and there was nothing to be donebut give it. so she took out the flask with the sleeping drink and putit to the lips of the first of them. and now she shook no more, butguided the flask so that each of them got just as much as he ought, andthe twelfth had not done drinking before the first was already sittingsnoring. Then the Master Thief flung off his beggar's rags, and took onestable boy after the other and gently set him astride on the partitionswhich divided the stalls, and then he called his eleven men who werewaiting outside, and they rode off with the Governor's horses.In the morning when the Governor came to look after his stable boys theywere just beginning to come to again. They were driving their spurs intothe partition till the splinters flew about, and some of the boys felloff, and some still hung on and sat looking like fools. 'Ah, well,' saidthe Governor, 'it is easy to see who has been here. but what a worthlessset of fellows you must be to sit here and let the Master Thief stealthe horses from under you!' And they all got a beating for not havingkept watch better.Later in the day the Master Thief came and related what he had done,and wanted to have the Governor's daughter as had been promised. But theGovernor gave him a hundred dollars, and said that he must do somethingthat was better still.'Do you think you can steal my horse from under me when I am out ridingon it?' said he.'Well, it might be done,' said the Master Thief, 'if I were absolutelycertain that I should get your daughter.'So the Governor said that he would see what he could do, and then hesaid that on a certain day he would ride out to a great common wherethey drilled the soldiers.So the Master Thief immediately got hold of an old worn out mare,and set himself to work to make a collar for it of green withies andbranches of broom. bought a shabby old cart and a great cask, and thenhe told a poor old beggar woman that he would give her ten dollars ifshe would get into the cask and keep her mouth wide open beneath thetap hole, into which he was going to stick his finger. No harm shouldhappen to her, he said. she should only be driven about a little, and ifhe took his finger out more than once, she should have ten dollars more.Then he dressed himself in rags, dyed himself with soot, and put ona wig and a great beard of goat's hair, so that it was impossible torecognise him, and went to the parade ground, where the Governor hadalready been riding about a long time.When the Master Thief got there the mare went along so slowly andquietly that the cart hardly seemed to move from the spot. The marepulled it a little forward, and then a little back, and then it stoppedquite short. Then the mare pulled a little forward again, and it movedwith such difficulty that the Governor had not the least idea that thiswas the Master Thief. He rode straight up to him, and asked if he hadseen anyone hiding anywhere about in a wood that was close by.'No,' said the man, 'that have I not.''Hark you,' said the Governor. 'If you will ride into that wood, andsearch it carefully to see if you can light upon a fellow who is hidingin there, you shall have the loan of my horse and a good present ofmoney for your trouble.''I am not sure that I can do it,' said the man, 'for I have to go to awedding with this cask of mead which I have been to fetch, and thetap has fallen out on the way, so now I have to keep my finger in thetap hole as I drive.''Oh, just ride off,' said the Governor, 'and I will look after the caskand the horse too.'So the man said that if he would do that he would go, but he beggedthe Governor to be very careful to put his finger into the tap hole themoment he took his out.So the Governor said that he would do his very best, and the MasterThief got on the Governor's horse.But time passed, and it grew later and later, and still the man did notcome back, and at last the Governor grew so weary of keeping his fingerin the tap hole that he took it out.'Now I shall have ten dollars more!' cried the old woman inside thecask. so he soon saw what kind of mead it was, and set out homewards.When he had gone a very little way he met his servant bringing him thehorse, for the Master Thief had already taken it home.The following day he went to the Governor and wanted to have hisdaughter according to promise. But the Governor again put him off withfine words, and only gave him three hundred dollars, saying that he mustdo one more masterpiece of skill, and if he were but able to do that heshould have her.Well, the Master Thief thought he might if he could hear what it was.'Do you think you can steal the sheet off our bed, and my wife'snight gown?' said the Governor.'That is by no means impossible,' said the Master Thief. 'I only wish Icould get your daughter as easily.'So late at night the Master Thief went and cut down a thief who washanging on the gallows, laid him on his own shoulders, and took himaway with him. Then he got hold of a long ladder, set it up against theGovernor's bedroom window, and climbed up and moved the dead man's headup and down, just as if he were some one who was standing outside andpeeping in.'There's the Master Thief, mother!' said the Governor, nudging his wife.'Now I'll just shoot him, that I will!'So he took up a rifle which he had laid at his bedside.'Oh no, you must not do that,' said his wife. 'you yourself arrangedthat he was to come here.''Yes, mother, I will shoot him,' said he, and lay there aiming, and thenaiming again, for no sooner was the head up and he caught sight of itthan it was gone again. At last he got a chance and fired, and the deadbody fell with a loud thud to the ground, and down went the Master Thieftoo, as fast as he could.'Well,' said the Governor, 'I certainly am the chief man about here, butpeople soon begin to talk, and it would be very unpleasant if they wereto see this dead body. the best thing that I can do is to go out andbury him.''Just do what you think best, father,' said his wife.So the Governor got up and went downstairs, and as soon as he hadgone out through the door, the Master Thief stole in and went straightupstairs to the woman.'Well, father dear,' said she, for she thought it was her husband. 'Haveyou got done already?''Oh yes, I only put him into a hole,' said he, 'and raked a little earthover him. that's all I have been able to do to night, for it is fearfulweather outside. I will bury him better afterwards, but just let mehave the sheet to wipe myself with, for he was bleeding, and I have gotcovered with blood with carrying him.'So she gave him the sheet.'You will have to let me have your night gown too,' he said, 'for Ibegin to see that the sheet won't be enough.'Then she gave him her night gown, but just then it came into hishead that he had forgotten to lock the door, and he was forced to godownstairs and do it before he could lie down in bed again. So off hewent with the sheet, and the night gown too.An hour later the real Governor returned.'Well, what a time it has taken to lock the house door, father!' saidhis wife, 'and what have you done with the sheet and the night gown?''What do you mean?' asked the Governor.'Oh, I am asking you what you have done with the night gown and sheetthat you got to wipe the blood off yourself with,' said she.'Good heavens!' said the Governor, 'has he actually got the better of meagain?'When day came the Master Thief came too, and wanted to have theGovernor's daughter as had been promised, and the Governor dared do nootherwise than give her to him, and much money besides, for he fearedthat if he did not the Master Thief might steal the very eyes out of hishead, and that he himself would be ill spoken of by all men. The MasterThief lived well and happily from that time forth, and whether he everstole any more or not I cannot tell you, but if he did it was but forpastime.(5) From P. C. Asbjornsen.