There was once a king who, during the day, used to sit on his throneand dispense justice, but who at night was accustomed to disguise himselfand to wander about the streets of his city looking for adventures.One evening he was passing by a certain garden when he observed fouryoung girls sitting under a tree, and conversing together in earnesttones. Curious to overhear the subject of their discourse, he stopped tolisten.One of the girls said, "I think of all tastes the pleasantest in theworld is the taste of telling lies."This remark so interested the king that the next day he summoned thegirl to his palace."Tell me," he said, "what you and your companions talked about underthe tree last night.""It was not about the king," answered she."Nevertheless," asked he, "what was it you said?""Those who tell lies, said I, must tell them because they find thepractice agreeable," replied she."Whose daughter are you?" inquired the king."I am the daughter of a farmer," answered the girl."And what made you think there was pleasure in telling lies?" asked theking.The girl answered saucily, "Oh, you yourself will tell liessomeday!""How?" said the king. "What can you mean?"The girl answered, "If you will give me two lacs of rupees, and sixmonths to consider, I will promise to prove my words."So the king gave the girl the sum of money she asked for, and agreed toher conditions.After six months he called her to his presence again, and reminded herof her promise. Now, in the interval the girl had built a fine palace faraway in the forest, upon which she had expended the wealth which the kinghad given to her. It was beautifully adorned with carvings and paintings,and furnished with silk and satin. So she now said to the king, "Come withme, and you shall see God."Taking with him two of his ministers, the king went out, and by theevening they all arrived at the palace."This palace is the abode of God," said the girl. "But he will revealhimself only to one person at a time, and he will not reveal himself evento him unless he was born in lawful wedlock. Therefore, while the restremain without, let each of you enter in order.""Be it so," said the king. "But let my ministers precede me. I shall goin last."So the first minister passed through the door and at once found himselfin a noble room, and as he looked around he said to himself, "Who knowswhether I shall be permitted to see God or not? I may be a bastard. Andyet this place, so spacious and so beautiful, is a fitting dwelling placeeven for the deity." With all his looking and straining, however, he quitefailed to see God anywhere. Then said he to himself, "If now I go out anddeclare that I have not seen God, the king and the other minister willthrow it in my teeth that I am base born. I have only one course open,therefore, which is to say that I have seen him."So he went out, and when the king asked, "Have you seen God?" heanswered at once, "Of course I have seen God.""But have you really seen him?" continued the king."Really and truly," answered the minister."And what did he say to you?" inquired the king further."God commanded me not to divulge his words," readily answered theminister.Then said the king to the other minister, "Now you go in."The second minister lost no time in obeying his master's order,thinking in his heart as he crossed the threshold, "I wonder if I ambase born?" Finding himself in the midst of the magnificent chamber, hegazed about him on all sides, but failed to see God. Then said he tohimself, "It is very possible I am base born, for no God can I see. But itwould be a lasting disgrace that I should admit it. I had better make outthat I also have seen God."Accordingly, he returned to the king, who said to him, "Well, have youseen God?" when the minister asserted that he had not only seen him, butthat he had spoken with him too.It was now the turn of the king, and he entered the room confident thathe would be similarly favored. But he gazed around in dismay, perceivingno sign of anything which could even represent the Almighty. Then began heto think to himself, "This God, wherever he is, has been seen by both myministers, and it cannot be denied, therefore, that their birthright isclear. Is it possible that I, the king, am a bastard, seeing that no Godappears to me? The very thought is confusion, and necessity will compel meto assert that I have seen him too."Having formed this resolution, the king stepped out and joined the restof his party."And now, O king," asked the cunning girl, "have you also seenGod?""Yes," answered he with assurance, "I have seen God.""Really?" asked she again."Certainly," asserted the king.Three times the girl asked the same question, and three times the kingunblushingly lied. Then said the girl, "O king, have you never aconscience? How could you possibly see God, seeing that God is aspirit?"Hearing this reproof, the king recalled to mind the saying of the girlthat one day he would lie too, and, with a laugh, he confessed that he hadnot seen God at all. The two ministers, beginning to feel alarmed,confessed the truth as well. Then said the girl, "O king, we poor peoplemay tell lies occasionally to save our lives, but what had you to fear?Telling lies, therefore, for many has its own attractions, and to them atleast the taste of lying is sweet."Far from being offended at the stratagem which the girl had practicedon him, the king was so struck with her ingenuity and assurance that hemarried her forthwith, and in a short time she became his confidentialadviser in all his affairs, public as well as private. Thus this simplegirl came to great honor and renown, and so much did she grow in wisdomthat her fame spread through many lands.