In a village there was a mill. The miller could no longer get anyone towork for him, because several workers had died in the mill in a mysteriousmanner.One day a mill hand came to the miller and asked about work. The millersaid that he desperately needed a helper, but he had to tell him thatthings were not exactly right in his mill. The mill hand was an outgoingfellow, and he asked the master to hire him, saying that he would dealwith the spook. The master agreed to this.That night the mill hand went into the mill, taking a sword with him.At the stroke of midnight a wet cat crept through a hole into the mill andsat down next on the stove bench. After it had sat there a while andsecond cat came, and then a third one, and they took places next to thefirst cat.And then a miracle! The more they warmed themselves, the larger theygrew.Then the first cat said, "Shall we? Shall we?"The next one answered, "Eeow!"And the third one, "Get him!"Then all three, each with a powerful leap, jumped at the mill hand,hissing and spitting, and with angry sparks spraying from their eyes.The mill hand did not stand idly by. With his sword he cut off a leg ofthe first cat, and it began to cry pitifully. Then all three catshurriedly slipped out the same hole through which they had entered.He picked up the leg, and it was a human hand with a gold ring on onefinger. He wrapped it in a cloth. The next morning he took it to themaster and told him of the adventure that he had withstood. The latter wasvery pleased to hear this, for he hoped that the spook would no longer beinterested in returning.At breakfast the master said to his mill hand, "My wife is very ill."The mill hand wanted to see her, claiming that in some regards he knewjust as much as a doctor. The miller led him to the room where his wifewas lying.The mill worker said, "Show me your right hand!" The woman showed himher left hand.The mill worker said again, "No, show me the right one!" but sherefused.Then the mill hand unwrapped the severed hand from the cloth and heldit out. The woman began to shake like aspen leaves. Her face becamedistorted. and with moans and groans she confessed that she was a witchand that she had been the cat. She also named her two accomplices. Andthen she died a horrible death.Since then nothing unusual has happened at the mill.