The Panchatantra )On the shore of the Ganges there was a hermitage filled with holy mendedicated to prayer, self denial, repentance, the studyof holy scriptures, fasting, and meditation. They drank only small amountsof very pure water, and mortified their bodies with adiet of bulbs, roots, fruits, and water plants. Their only clothing wereloincloths made from tree bark.The father of the hermitage was named Yajnavalkya. He had just finishedbathing in the Ganges and was about to rinse outhis mouth when a little mouse fell from a falcon's beak into his hand.After looking at it, he set it onto a fig leaf, bathed himselfonce more, rinsed out his mouth, and performed his penitential and otherrituals. Then through the power of his holiness hetransformed the mouse into a girl.Taking her home with him to his hermitage, he said to his wife, who waschildless, "My dear, take her in place of a daughter.Bring her up with care!"Thereafter she was reared, loved, and nurtured. When she was twelveyears old, and the wife saw that she was ready formarriage, she said to her husband, "Listen, husband, do you not see thatit is past time for our daughter's marriage?"He said, "What you say is quite right! So if she is willing, I willsummon the exalted sun god and present her to him as a wife.His wife said, "What could be said against that? Do it!"Through the power of prayer and incantations the sun appeared withoutdelay, saying, "Holy man, why do you summonme?"The man answered, "Behold! Here stands my little daughter. If she willhave you, take her as a wife!"Having said this, he said to his daughter, "Daughter, does this exaltedone please you, this sun god who illuminates the threeworlds?"The daughter said, "Father, he is too hot. I do not want him. Summon abetter one!"Hearing this, the wise man said to the sun, "Exalted one, is there abeing more powerful than you?"The sun answered, "Yes, there is a stronger one than I. The cloud,through whose cover I become invisible."Then the wise man summoned the cloud and said to his daughter,"Daughter, shall I give you to this one as a wife?"She answered, "He is black and cold. Therefore give me to anotherpowerful being!"Upon this the wise man asked the cloud, "Listen, cloud! Is there anyonemore powerful than you?"The cloud answered, "The wind is more powerful than I! Driven by thewind, I am scattered into a thousand pieces."After hearing this, the wise man summoned the wind and said, "Daughter,does the wind please you most of all as ahusband?"She answered, "Father! He is entirely too inconstant. Summon a morepowerful one instead!"The wise man said, "Wind, is there anyone more powerful than you?"The wind said, "The mountain is more powerful than I, for howeverstrong I am, he still stands firmly against me."Then the wise man summoned the mountain and said to the girl,"Daughter, shall I give you to this one in marriage?"She answered, "Father, he is hard and rigid. Therefore give me toanother one."The wise man asked the mountain, "Listen, king of the mountains, isthere anyone more powerful than you?"The mountain answered, "The mice are more powerful than I, for theymake holes in my body with violence."With that the wise man summoned a mouse and showed him to her, saying,"Daughter, shall I give you to him as a wife?Does this mouse king please you?"Seeing him, she thought, "He is of my own kind."Her hair stood on end with pleasure, making her even more beautiful,and she said, "Father, make me into a mouse and giveme to him as a wife so I can fulfill the domestic duties prescribed for mykind!"Through the power of his holiness he transformed her into a littlemouse and gave her to the other mouse as a wife.