There was a farmer before now who had a White Pet (sheep), and whenChristmas was drawing near, he thought that he would kill the White Pet.The White Pet heard that, and he thought he would run away. and that iswhat he did.He had not gone far when a bull met him. Said the bull to him, "Allhail! White Pet, where are you going?""I," said the White Pet, "am going to seek my fortune. they were goingto kill me for Christmas, and I thought I had better run away.""It is better for me," said the bull, "to go with you, for they weregoing to do the very same with me.""I am willing," said the White Pet. "the larger the party the betterthe fun."They went forward until they fell in with a dog. "All hail! White Pet,"said the dog."All hail! dog.""Where are you going?" said the dog."I am running away, for I heard that they were threatening to kill mefor Christmas.""They were going to do the very same to me," said the dog, "and I willgo with you.""Come, then," said the White Pet.They went then, until a cat joined them. "All hail! White Pet," saidthe cat."All hail! oh cat.""Where are you going?" said the cat."I am going to seek my fortune," said the White Pet, " because theywere going to kill me at Christmas.""They were talking about killing me too," said the cat," and I hadbetter go with you.""Come on then," said the White Pet.Then they went forward until a cock met them. "All hail! White Pet,"said the cock."All hail to yourself! oh cock," said the White Pet."Where," said the cock," are you going?""I," said the White Pet, "am going away, for they were threatening mydeath at Christmas.""They were going to kill me at the very same time," said the cock, "and I will go with you.""Come, then," said the White Pet.They went forward until they fell in with a goose. "All hail! WhitePet," said the goose. "All hail to yourself! oh goose," said the WhitePet."Where are you going?" said the goose."I," said the White Pet, "am running away, because they were going tokill me at Christmas.""They were going to do that to me too," said the goose, "and I will gowith you."The party went forward until the night was drawing on them, and theysaw a little light far away. and though far off, they were not longgetting there. When they reached the house they said to each other thatthey would look in at the window to see who was in the house, and they sawthieves counting money. and the White Pet said, "Let every one of us callhis own call. I will call my own call. and let the bull call his own call.let the dog call his own call. and the cat her own call. and the cock hisown call. and the goose his own call." With that they gave out one shout  Gaire!When the thieves heard the shouting outside, they thought the mischiefwas there. and they fled out, and they went to a wood that was near them.When the White Pet and his company saw that the house was empty, they wentin and they got the money that the thieves had been counting, and theydivided it among themselves. and then they thought that they would settleto rest. Said the White Pet, "Where will you sleep tonight, oh bull?""I will sleep," said the bull, "behind the door where I used tobe.""Where will you sleep, White Pet?""I will sleep," said the White Pet, "in the middle of the floor where Iused to be.""Where will you sleep, oh dog?" said the White Pet."I will sleep beside the fire where I used to be," said the dog."Where will you sleep, oh cat?""I will sleep," said the cat, "in the candle press, where I like tobe.""Where will you sleep, oh cock?" said the White Pet."I," said the cock, " will sleep on the rafters where I used tobe.""Where will you sleep, oh goose?""I will sleep," said the goose, "on the manure pile, where I wasaccustomed to be."They were not long settled to rest, when one of the thieves returned tolook in to see if he could perceive if any one at all was in the house.All things were still, and he went on forward to the candle press for acandle, that he might kindle to make him a light. but when he put his handin the box the cat thrust her claws into his hand, but he took a candlewith him, and he tried to light it. Then the dog got up, and he stuck histail into a pot of water that was beside the fire. he shook his tail andput out the candle. Then the thief thought that the mischief was in thehouse, and he fled. but when he was passing the White Pet, he gave him ablow. before he got past the bull, he gave him a kick. and the cock beganto crow. and when he went out, the goose began to belabor him with hiswings about the shanks.He went to the wood where his comrades were, as fast as was in hislegs. They asked him how it had gone with him. "It went," said he, "butmiddling. when I went to the candle press, there was a man in it whothrust ten knives into my hand. and when I went to the fireside to lightthe candle, there was a big black man lying there, who was sprinklingwater on it to put it out. and when I tried to go out, there was a big manin the middle of the floor, who gave me a shove. and another man behindthe door who pushed me out. and there was a little brat on the loftcalling out Cuir anees an shaw ay s foni mi hayn da   Send him up hereand I'll do for him. and there was a shoemaker, out on the manure pile,belaboring me about the shanks with his apron."When the thieves heard that, they did not return to seek their lot ofmoney. and the White Pet and his comrades got it to themselves. and itkept them peaceably as long as they lived.