Once upon a time there lived a Fairy who had power over the earth, thesea, fire, and the air. and this Fairy had four sons. The eldest, whowas quick and lively, with a vivid imagination, she made Lord of Fire,which was in her opinion the noblest of all the elements. To the secondson, whose wisdom and prudence made amends for his being rather dull,she gave the government of the earth. The third was wild and savage, andof monstrous stature. and the Fairy, his mother, who was ashamed ofhis defects, hoped to hide them by creating him King of the Seas. Theyoungest, who was the slave of his passions and of a very uncertaintemper, became Prince of the Air.Being the youngest, he was naturally his mother's favourite. but thisdid not blind her to his weaknesses, and she foresaw that some day hewould suffer much pain through falling in love. So she thought the bestthing she could do was to bring him up with a horror of women. and, toher great delight, she saw this dislike only increased as he grew older.From his earliest childhood he heard nothing but stories of princes whohad fallen into all sorts of troubles through love. and she drewsuch terrible pictures of poor little Cupid that the young man had nodifficulty in believing that he was the root of all evil.All the time that this wise mother could spare from filling her sonwith hatred for all womenkind she passed in giving him a love of thepleasures of the chase, which henceforth became his chief joy. For hisamusement she had made a new forest, planted with the most splendidtrees, and turned loose in it every animal that could be found in any ofthe four quarters of the globe. In the midst of this forest she built apalace which had not its equal for beauty in the whole world, and thenshe considered that she had done enough to make any prince happy.Now it is all very well to abuse the God of Love, but a man cannotstruggle against his fate. In his secret heart the Prince got tired ofhis mother's constant talk on this subject. and when one day she quittedthe palace to attend to some business, begging him never to go beyondthe grounds, he at once jumped at the chance of disobeying her.Left to himself the Prince soon forgot the wise counsels of his mother,and feeling very much bored with his own company, he ordered some ofthe spirits of the air to carry him to the court of a neighbouringsovereign. This kingdom was situated in the Island of Roses, where theclimate is so delicious that the grass is always green and the flowersalways sweet. The waves, instead of beating on the rocks, seemed to diegently on the shore. clusters of golden bushes covered the land, and thevines were bent low with grapes.The King of this island had a daughter named Rosalie, who was morelovely than any girl in the whole world. No sooner had the eyes of thePrince of the Air rested on her than he forgot all the terrible woeswhich had been prophesied to him ever since he was born, for in onesingle moment the plans of years are often upset. He instantly began tothink how best to make himself happy, and the shortest way that occurredto him was to have Rosalie carried off by his attendant spirits.It is easy to imagine the feelings of the King when he found that hisdaughter had vanished. He wept her loss night and day, and his onlycomfort was to talk over it with a young and unknown prince, who hadjust arrived at the Court. Alas! he did not know what a deep interestthe stranger had in Rosalie, for he too had seen her, and had fallen avictim to her charms.One day the King, more sorrowful than usual, was walking sadly alongthe sea shore, when after a long silence the unknown Prince, who was hisonly companion, suddenly spoke. 'There is no evil without a remedy,' hesaid to the unhappy father. 'and if you will promise me your daughter inmarriage, I will undertake to bring her back to you.''You are trying to soothe me by vain promises,' answered the King. 'DidI not see her caught up into the air, in spite of cries which would havesoftened the heart of any one but the barbarian who has robbed me ofher? The unfortunate girl is pining away in some unknown land, whereperhaps no foot of man has ever trod, and I shall see her no more. Butgo, generous stranger. bring back Rosalie if you can, and live happywith her ever after in this country, of which I now declare you heir.'Although the stranger's name and rank were unknown to Rosalie's father,he was really the son of the King of the Golden Isle, which had forcapital a city that extended from one sea to another. The walls, washedby the quiet waters, were covered with gold, which made one think of theyellow sands. Above them was a rampart of orange and lemon trees, andall the streets were paved with gold.The King of this beautiful island had one son, for whom a life ofadventure had been foretold at his birth. This so frightened his fatherand mother that in order to comfort them a Fairy, who happened to bepresent at the time, produced a little pebble which she told them tokeep for the Prince till he grew up, as by putting it in his mouth hewould become invisible, as long as he did not try to speak, for if hedid the stone would lose all its virtue. In this way the good fairyhoped that the Prince would be protected against all dangers.No sooner did the Prince begin to grow out of boyhood than he longed tosee if the other countries of the world were as splendid as the one inwhich he lived. So, under pretence of visiting some small islands thatbelonged to his father, he set out. But a frightful storm drove his shipon to unknown shores, where most of his followers were put to death bythe savages, and the Prince himself only managed to escape by making useof his magic pebble. By this means he passed through the midst of themunseen, and wandered on till he reached the coast, where he re embarkedon board his ship.The first land he sighted was the Island of Roses, and he went at onceto the court of the King, Rosalie's father. The moment his eyes beheldthe Princess, he fell in love with her like everyone else.He had already spent several months in this condition when the Prince ofthe Air whirled her away, to the grief and despair of every man on theisland. But sad though everybody was, the Prince of the Golden Isle wasperfectly inconsolable, and he passed both days and nights in bemoaninghis loss.'Alas!' he cried. 'shall I never see my lovely Princess again?' Whoknows where she may be, and what fairy may have her in his keeping? I amonly a man, but I am strong in my love, and I will seek the whole worldthrough till I find her.'So saying, he left the court, and made ready for his journey.He travelled many weary days without hearing a single word of the lostPrincess, till one morning, as he was walking through a thick forest,he suddenly perceived a magnificent palace standing at the end of apine avenue, and his heart bounded to think that he might be gazing onRosalie's prison. He hastened his steps, and quickly arrived at the gateof the palace, which was formed of a single agate. The gate swungopen to let him through, and he next passed successively three courts,surrounded by deep ditches filled with running water, with birds ofbrilliant plumage flying about the banks. Everything around was rare andbeautiful, but the Prince scarcely raised his eyes to all these wonders.He thought only of the Princess and where he should find her, but invain he opened every door and searched in every corner. he neither sawRosalie nor anyone else. At last there was no place left for him tosearch but a little wood, which contained in the centre a sort of hallbuilt entirely of orange trees, with four small rooms opening out ofthe corners. Three of these were empty except for statues and wonderfulthings, but in the fourth the Invisible Prince caught sight of Rosalie.His joy at beholding her again was, however, somewhat lessened by seeingthat the Prince of the Air was kneeling at her feet, and pleading hisown cause. But it was in vain that he implored her to listen. she onlyshook her head. 'No,' was all she would say. 'you snatched me frommy father whom I loved, and all the splendour in the world can neverconsole me. Go! I can never feel anything towards you but hate andcontempt.' With these words she turned away and entered her ownapartments.Unknown to herself the Invisible Prince had followed her, but fearing tobe discovered by the Princess in the presence of others, he made up hismind to wait quietly till dark. and employed the long hours in writing apoem to the Princess, which he laid on the bed beside her. This done, hethought of nothing but how best to deliver Rosalie, and he resolved totake advantage of a visit which the Prince of the Air paid every year tohis mother and brothers in order to strike the blow.One day Rosalie was sitting alone in her room thinking of her troubleswhen she suddenly saw a pen get up from off the desk and begin to writeall by itself on a sheet of white paper. As she did not know that it wasguided by an invisible hand she was very much astonished, and the momentthat the pen had ceased to move she instantly went over to the table,where she found some lovely verses, telling her that another shared herdistresses, whatever they might be, and loved her with all his heart.and that he would never rest until he had delivered her from the handsof the man she hated. Thus encouraged, she told him all her story, andof the arrival of a young stranger in her father's palace, whose lookshad so charmed her that since that day she had thought of no one else.At these words the Prince could contain himself no longer. He took thepebble from his mouth, and flung himself at Rosalie's feet.When they had got over the first rapture of meeting they began to makeplans to escape from the power of the Prince of the Air. But this didnot prove easy, for the magic stone would only serve for one person ata time, and in order to save Rosalie the Prince of the Golden Isle wouldhave to expose himself to the fury of his enemy. But Rosalie would nothear of this.'No, Prince,' she said. 'since you are here this island no longer feelsa prison. Besides, you are under the protection of a Fairy, who alwaysvisits your father's court at this season. Go instantly and seek her,and when she is found implore the gift of another stone with similarpowers. Once you have that, there will be no further difficulty in theway of escape.'The Prince of the Air returned a few days later from his mother'spalace, but the Invisible Prince had already set out. He had, however,entirely forgotten the road by which he had come, and lost himself forso long in the forest, that when at last he reached home the Fairy hadalready left, and, in spite of all his grief, there was nothing for itbut to wait till the Fairy's next visit, and allow Rosalie to sufferthree months longer. This thought drove him to despair, and he hadalmost made up his mind to return to the place of her captivity, whenone day, as he was strolling along an alley in the woods, he saw ahuge oak open its trunk, and out of it step two Princes in earnestconversation. As our hero had the magic stone in his mouth they imaginedthemselves alone, and did not lower their voices.'What!' said one, 'are you always going to allow yourself to betormented by a passion which can never end happily, and in your wholekingdom can you find nothing else to satisfy you?''What is the use,' replied the other, 'of being Prince of the Gnomes,and having a mother who is queen over all the four elements, if I cannotwin the love of the Princess Argentine? From the moment that I first sawher, sitting in the forest surrounded by flowers, I have never ceasedto think of her night and day, and, although I love her, I am quiteconvinced that she will never care for me. You know that I have in mypalace the cabinets of the years. In the first, great mirrors reflectthe past. in the second, we contemplate the present. in the third, thefuture can be read. It was here that I fled after I had gazed on thePrincess Argentine, but instead of love I only saw scorn and contempt.Think how great must be my devotion, when, in spite of my fate, I stilllove on!'Now the Prince of the Golden Isle was enchanted with this conversation,for the Princess Argentine was his sister, and he hoped, by means of herinfluence over the Prince of the Gnomes, to obtain from his brotherthe release of Rosalie. So he joyfully returned to his father's palace,where he found his friend the Fairy, who at once presented him witha magic pebble like his own. As may be imagined, he lost no time insetting out to deliver Rosalie, and travelled so fast that he soonarrived at the forest, in the midst of which she lay a captive. Butthough he found the palace he did not find Rosalie. He hunted high andlow, but there was no sign of her, and his despair was so great thathe was ready, a thousand times over, to take his own life. At last heremembered the conversation of the two Princes about the cabinets of theyears, and that if he could manage to reach the oak tree, he would becertain to discover what had become of Rosalie. Happily, he soon foundout the secret of the passage and entered the cabinet of the present,where he saw reflected in the mirrors the unfortunate Rosalie sittingon the floor weeping bitterly, and surrounded with genii, who never lefther night or day.This sight only increased the misery of the Prince, for he did notknow where the castle was, nor how to set about finding it. However,he resolved to seek the whole world through till he came to the rightplace. He began by setting sail in a favourable wind, but his bad luckfollowed him even on the sea. He had scarcely lost sight of the landwhen a violent storm arose, and after several hours of beating about,the vessel was driven on to some rocks, on which it dashed itselfto bits. The Prince was fortunate enough to be able to lay hold of afloating spar, and contrived to keep himself afloat. and, after a longstruggle with the winds and waves, he was cast upon a strange island.But what was his surprise, on reaching the shore, to hear sounds of themost heartrending distress, mingled with the sweetest songs which hadever charmed him! His curiosity was instantly roused, and he advancedcautiously till he saw two huge dragons guarding the gate of a wood.They were terrible indeed to look upon. Their bodies were covered withglittering scales. their curly tails extended far over the land. flamesdarted from their mouths and noses, and their eyes would have made thebravest shudder. but as the Prince was invisible and they did not seehim, he slipped past them into the wood. He found himself at once in alabyrinth, and wandered about for a long time without meeting anyone. infact, the only sight he saw was a circle of human hands, sticking outof the ground above the wrist, each with a bracelet of gold, on whicha name was written. The farther he advanced in the labyrinth the morecurious he became, till he was stopped by two corpses lying in themidst of a cypress alley, each with a scarlet cord round his neck and abracelet on his arm on which were engraved their own names, and those oftwo Princesses.The invisible Prince recognised these dead men as Kings of two largeislands near his own home, but the names of the Princesses were unknownto him. He grieved for their unhappy fate, and at once proceeded to burythem. but no sooner had he laid them in their graves, than their handsstarted up through the earth and remained sticking up like those oftheir fellows.The Prince went on his way, thinking about this strange adventure, whensuddenly at the turn of the walk he perceived a tall man whose face wasthe picture of misery, holding in his hands a silken cord of the exactcolour of those round the necks of the dead men. A few steps furtherthis man came up with another as miserable to the full as he himself.they silently embraced, and then without a word passed the cords roundtheir throats, and fell dead side by side. In vain the Prince rushed totheir assistance and strove to undo the cord. He could not loosen it. sohe buried them like the others and continued his path.He felt, however, that great prudence was necessary, or he himself mightbecome the victim of some enchantment. and he was thankful to slip pastthe dragons, and enter a beautiful park, with clear streams and sweetflowers, and a crowd of men and maidens. But he could not forgetthe terrible things he had seen, and hoped eagerly for a clue to themystery. Noticing two young people talking together, he drew nearthinking that he might get some explanation of what puzzled him. And sohe did.'You swear,' said the Prince, 'that you will love me till you die, but Ifear your faithless heart, and I feel that I shall soon have to seek theFairy Despair, ruler of half this island. She carries off the loverswho have been cast away by their mistresses, and wish to have done withlife. She places them in a labyrinth where they are condemned to walkfor ever, with a bracelet on their arms and a cord round their necks,unless they meet another as miserable as themselves. Then the cord ispulled and they lie where they fall, till they are buried by the firstpasser by. Terrible as this death would be,' added the Prince, 'it wouldbe sweeter than life if I had lost your love.'The sight of all these happy lovers only made the Prince grieve themore, and he wandered along the seashore spending his days. but one dayhe was sitting on a rock bewailing his fate, and the impossibilityof leaving the island, when all in a moment the sea appeared to raiseitself nearly to the skies, and the caves echoed with hideous screams.As he looked a woman rose from the depths of the sea, flying madlybefore a furious giant. The cries she uttered softened the heart ofthe Prince. he took the stone from his mouth, and drawing his swordhe rushed after the giant, so as to give the lady time to escape. Buthardly had he come within reach of the enemy, than the giant touched himwith a ring that he held in his hand, and the Prince remained immovablewhere he stood. The giant then hastily rejoined his prey, and, seizingher in his arms, he plunged her into the sea. Then he sent some tritonsto bind chains about the Prince of the Golden Isle, and he too felthimself borne to the depths of the ocean, and without the hope of everagain seeing the Princess.Now the giant whom the invisible had so rashly attacked was the Lordof the Sea, and the third son of the Queen of the Elements, and he hadtouched the youth with a magic ring which enabled a mortal to live underwater. So the Prince of the Golden Isle found, when bound in chains bythe tritons, he was carried through the homes of strange monstersand past immense seaweed forests, till he reached a vast sandy space,surrounded by huge rocks. On the tallest of the rocks sat the giant ason a throne.'Rash mortal,' said he, when the Prince was dragged before him, 'youhave deserved death, but you shall live only to suffer more cruelly. Go,and add to the number of those whom it is my pleasure to torture.'At these words the unhappy Prince found himself tied to a rock. but hewas not alone in his misfortunes, for all round him were chained Princesand Princesses, whom the giant had led captive. Indeed, it was his chiefdelight to create a storm, in order to add to the list of his prisoners.As his hands were fastened, it was impossible for the Prince of theGolden Isle to make use of his magic stone, and he passed his nights anddays dreaming of Rosalie. But at last the time came when the giant tookit into his head to amuse himself by arranging fights between someof his captives. Lots were drawn, and one fell upon our Prince, whosechains were immediately loosened. The moment he was set free, hesnatched up his stone, and became invisible.The astonishment of the giant at the sudden disappearance of the Princemay well be imagined. He ordered all the passages to be watched, but itwas too late, for the Prince had already glided between two rocks. Hewandered for a long while through the forests, where he met nothing butfearful monsters. he climbed rock after rock, steered his way from treeto tree, till at length he arrived at the edge of the sea, at the footof a mountain that he remembered to have seen in the cabinet of thepresent, where Rosalie was held captive.Filled with joy, he made his way to the top of the mountain whichpierced the clouds, and there he found a palace. He entered, and in themiddle of a long gallery he discovered a crystal room, in the midst ofwhich sat Rosalie, guarded night and day by genii. There was no dooranywhere, nor any window. At this sight the Prince became more puzzledthan ever, for he did not know how he was to warn Rosalie of his return.Yet it broke his heart to see her weeping from dawn till dark.One day, as Rosalie was walking up and down her room, she was surprisedto see that the crystal which served for a wall had grown cloudy, as ifsome one had breathed on it, and, what was more, wherever she movedthe brightness of the crystal always became clouded. This was enough tocause the Princess to suspect that her lover had returned. In orderto set the Prince of the Air's mind at rest she began by being verygracious to him, so that when she begged that her captivity might be alittle lightened she should not be refused. At first the only favour sheasked was to be allowed to walk for one hour every day up and down thelong gallery. This was granted, and the Invisible Prince speedily tookthe opportunity of handing her the stone, which she at once slippedinto her mouth. No words can paint the fury of her captor at herdisappearance. He ordered the spirits of the air to fly through allspace, and to bring back Rosalie wherever she might be. They instantlyflew off to obey his commands, and spread themselves over the wholeearth.Meantime Rosalie and the Invisible Prince had reached, hand in hand,a door of the gallery which led through a terrace into the gardens. Insilence they glided along, and thought themselves already safe, whena furious monster dashed itself by accident against Rosalie and theInvisible Prince, and in her fright she let go his hand. No one canspeak as long as he is invisible, and besides, they knew that thespirits were all around them, and at the slightest sound they wouldbe recognised. so all they could do was to feel about in the hope thattheir hands might once more meet.But, alas! the joy of liberty lasted but a short time. The Princess,having wandered in vain up and down the forest, stopped at last on theedge of a fountain. As she walked she wrote on the trees: 'If ever thePrince, my lover, comes this way, let him know that it is here I dwell,and that I sit daily on the edge of this fountain, mingling my tearswith its waters.'These words were read by one of the genii, who repeated them to hismaster. The Prince of the Air, in his turn making himself invisible, wasled to the fountain, and waited for Rosalie. When she drew near heheld out his hand, which she grasped eagerly, taking it for that of herlover. and, seizing his opportunity, the Prince passed a cord round herarms, and throwing off his invisibility cried to his spirits to drag herinto the lowest pit.It was at this moment that the Invisible Prince appeared, and at thesight of the Prince of the Genii mounting into the air, holding a silkencord, he guessed instantly that he was carrying off Rosalie.He felt so overwhelmed by despair that he thought for an instant ofputting an end to his life. 'Can I survive my misfortunes?' he cried. 'Ifancied I had come to an end of my troubles, and now they are worse thanever. What will become of me? Never can I discover the place where thismonster will hide Rosalie.'The unhappy youth had determined to let himself die, and indeed hissorrow alone was enough to kill him, when the thought that by meansof the cabinets of the years he might find out where the Princess wasimprisoned, gave him a little ray of comfort. So he continued to walkon through the forest, and after some hours he arrived at the gate of atemple, guarded by two huge lions. Being invisible, he was able to enterunharmed. In the middle of the temple was an altar, on which lay a book,and behind the altar hung a great curtain. The Prince approached thealtar and opened the book, which contained the names of all the loversin the world: and in it he read that Rosalie had been carried off by thePrince of the Air to an abyss which had no entrance except the one thatlay by way of the Fountain of Gold.Now, as the Prince had not the smallest idea where this fountain was tobe found, it might be thought that he was not much nearer Rosalie thanbefore. This was not, however, the view taken by the Prince.'Though every step that I take may perhaps lead me further from her,'he said to himself, 'I am still thankful to know that she is alivesomewhere.'On leaving the temple the Invisible Prince saw six paths lying beforehim, each of which led through the wood. He was hesitating which tochoose, when he suddenly beheld two people coming towards him, downthe track which lay most to his right. They turned out to be the PrinceGnome and his friend, and the sudden desire to get some news of hissister, Princess Argentine, caused the Invisible Prince to follow themand to listen to their conversation.'Do you think,' the Prince Gnome was saying, 'do you think that I wouldnot break my chains if I could? I know that the Princess Argentine willnever love me, yet each day I feel her dearer still. And as if thiswere not enough, I have the horror of feeling that she probably lovesanother. So I have resolved to put myself out of my pain by means of theGolden Fountain. A single drop of its water falling on the sand aroundwill trace the name of my rival in her heart. I dread the test, and yetthis very dread convinces me of my misfortune.'It may be imagined that after listening to these words the InvisiblePrince followed Prince Gnome like his shadow, and after walking sometime they arrived at the Golden Fountain. The unhappy lover stooped downwith a sigh, and dipping his finger in the water let fall a drop onthe sand. It instantly wrote the name of Prince Flame, his brother. Theshock of this discovery was so real, that Prince Gnome sank faintinginto the arms of his friend.Meanwhile the Invisible Prince was turning over in his mind how he couldbest deliver Rosalie. As, since he had been touched by the Giant's ring,he had the power to live in the water as well as on land, he at oncedived into the fountain. He perceived in one corner a door leading intothe mountain, and at the foot of the mountain was a high rock on whichwas fixed an iron ring with a cord attached. The Prince promptly guessedthat the cord was used to chain the Princess, and drew his sword and cutit. In a moment he felt the Princess's hand in his, for she hadalways kept her magic pebble in her mouth, in spite of the prayers andentreaties of the Prince of the Air to make herself visible.So hand in hand the invisible Prince and Rosalie crossed the mountain.but as the Princess had no power of living under water, she could notpass the Golden Fountain. Speechless and invisible they clung togetheron the brink, trembling at the frightful tempest the Prince of the Airhad raised in his fury. The storm had already lasted many days whentremendous heat began to make itself felt. The lightning flashed, thethunder rattled, fire bolts fell from heaven, burning up the forests andeven the fields of corn. In one instant the very streams were dried up,and the Prince, seizing his opportunity, carried the Princess over theGolden Fountain.It took them a long time still to reach the Golden Isle, but at lastthey got there, and we may be quite sure they never wanted to leave itany more.