Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a princewhose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capitalwas Dun Dalgan. They had one child, a boy, whom they named Setanta.As soon as Setanta was able to understand the stories and conversationof those around him, he evinced a passion for arms and the martial life,which was so premature and violent as to surprise all who knew him. Histhoughts for ever ran on the wars and achievements of the Red Branch. Heknew all the knights by name, the appearance and bearing of each, andwhat deeds of valour they had severally performed. Emain Macha, thecapital of the Clanna Rury, was never out of his mind. He saw for everbefore his mind its moats and ramparts, its gates and bridges, itsstreets filled with martial men, its high raised Duns and Raths, itsbranching roads, over which came the tributes of wide Ulla to the HighKing. He had seen his father's tribute driven thither, and had evenlonged to be one of the four footed beasts that he beheld wending theirway to the wondrous city. But, above all, he delighted to be told of thegreat school where the young nobles of Ulster were taught martialexercises and the military art, under the superintendence of chosenknights and of the High King himself. Of the several knights he had hisown opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructorsave Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster.Of his father he saw little. His mind had become impaired, and he wasconfined in a secluded part of the Dun. But whenever he spoke to Decteraof what was nearest his heart, and his desire to enter the militaryschool at Emain Macha, she laughed, and said that he was not yet oldenough to endure that rough life. But secretly she was alarmed, andformed plans to detain him at home altogether. Then Setanta concealedhis desire, but enquired narrowly concerning the partings of the roadson the way to Emania.At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night,Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossedthe frontier. He then lay down to rest and sleep in a wood. After thishe set out again, travelling quickly, lest he should be met by any ofhis father's people. On his back was strapped his little wooden shield,and by his side hung a sword of lath. He had brought his ball and hurleof red bronze with him, and ran swiftly along the road, driving the ballbefore him, or throwing up his javelin into the air, and running to meetit ere it fell.In the afternoon of that day Fergus Mac Roy and the King sat together inthe part that surrounded the King's palace. A chessboard was betweenthem, and their attention was fixed on the game.At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts ofthe boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air.Suddenly, the noise ceased, and Fergus and the King looked up. They sawa strange boy rushing backwards and forwards through the crowd of youngnobles, urging the ball in any direction that he pleased, as if inmockery, till none but the very best players attempted to stop him,while the rest stood about the ground in groups. Fergus and the Kinglooked at each other for a moment in silence.After this the boys came together into a group and held a council. Thencommenced what seemed to be an attempt to force him out of the ground,followed by a furious fight. The strange boy seemed to be a very demonof war. with his little hurle grasped, like a war mace, in both hands,he laid about him on every side, and the boys were tumbling fast. Hesprang at tall youths, like a hound at a stag's throat. He rushedthrough crowds of his enemies like a hawk through a flock of birds. Theboys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha fromthe fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain theshelter of the trees. Some of them, pursued by the stranger, ran roundConchubar Mac Nessa and his knight. The boy, however, running straight,sprang over the chess table. but Conchubar seized him deftly by thewrist and brought him to a stand, but with dilated eyes and panting."Why are you so enraged, my boy?" said the King, "and why do you somaltreat my nobles?""Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger,"replied the boy."Who are you yourself?" said Conchubar."I am Setanta, the son of Sualtim, and Dectera, your own sister, is mymother. and it is not before my uncle's palace that I should be insultedand dishonoured."This was the debut and first martial exploit of the great Cuculain, typeof Irish chivalry and courage, in the bardic firmament a bright andparticular star of strength, daring, and glory, that will not set norsuffer aught but transient obscuration till the extinction of the Irishrace. Cuculain, bravest of the brave, whose glory affected even thetemperate minded Tierna, so that his sober pen has inscribed, in theannals of ancient Erin, this testimony: "_Cuculain, filius Sualtamfortissimus heros Scotorum_."After this Setanta was regularly received into the military school,where, ere long, he became a favourite both with old and young. Heplaced himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grewmore and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame wasextending over Ulla.It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he ismore generally known. Culain was chief of the black country of Ulla, andof a people altogether given up to the making of weapons and armour,where the sound of the hammer and husky bellows were for ever heard. Oneday Conchubar and some of his knights, passing through the park topartake of an entertainment at the house of the armourer, paused awhile,looking at the boys at play. Then, as all were praising his littlenephew, Conchubar called to him, and the boy came up, flushed and shy,for there were with the King the chief warriors of the Red Branch. ButConchubar bade him come with them to the feast, and the knights aroundhim laughed, and enumerated the good things which Culain had preparedfor them. But when Setanta's brow fell, Conchubar bade him finish hisgame, and after that proceed to Culain's house, which was to the west ofEmain Macha, and more than a mile distant from the city. Then the Kingand his knights went on to the feast, and Setanta returned joyfully tohis game.Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshopand put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat andsmoke, made himself ready to receive his guests. but the evening fell asthey were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and satat the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shutfor the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber.Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" And whenthe King said that they were all there, Culain bade one of hisapprentices go out and let loose the great mastiff that guarded thehouse. Now, this mastiff was as large as a calf and exceedingly fierce,and he guarded all the smith's property outside the house, and if anyoneapproached the house without beating on the gong, which was outside thefoss and in front of the drawbridge, he was accustomed to rend him. Thenthe mastiff, having been let loose, careered three times round the liss,baying dreadfully, and after that remained quiet outside his kennel,guarding his master's property. But, inside, they devoted themselves tofeasting and merriment, and there were many jests made concerningCulain, for he was wont to cause laughter to Conchubar Mac Nessa and hisknights, yet he was good to his own people and faithful to the CraveRue, and very ardent and skilful in the practice of his art. But as theywere amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deepgrowl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after thatone yet more savage. but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus MacRoy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "Itis Setanta." But ere the door could be opened they heard the boy's voiceraised in anger and the fierce yelling of the dog, and a scuffling inthe bawn of the liss. Then they rushed to the door in great fear, forthey said that the boy was torn in pieces. but when the bolts were drawnback and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found thedog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he hadsprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor,Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with greatjoy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at thepreservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament overthe death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he renderedto him."Do not grieve for thy dog, O Culain," said Setanta, from the shoulderof Fergus, "for I will perform those services for you myself until a dogequally good is procured to take the place of him I slew."Then one jesting, said, "Cu culain!" (Hound of Culain) and thenceforwardhe went by this name.STANDISH O'GRADY.