A windmill stood upon the hill, proud to look at, and it was proudtoo."I am not proud at all," it said, "but I am very muchenlightened without and within. I have sun and moon for my outwarduse, and for inward use too. and into the bargain I have stearinecandles, train oil and lamps, and tallow candles. I may well saythat I'm enlightened. I'm a thinking being, and so well constructedthat it's quite delightful. I have a good windpipe in my chest, andI have four wings that are placed outside my head, just beneath myhat. The birds have only two wings, and are obliged to carry them ontheir backs. I am a Dutchman by birth, that may be seen by myfigure a flying Dutchman. They are considered supernatural beings,I know, and yet I am quite natural. I have a gallery round my chest,and house room beneath it. that's where my thoughts dwell. Mystrongest thought, who rules and reigns, is called by others 'TheMan in the Mill.' He knows what he wants, and is lord over the mealand the bran. but he has his companion, too, and she calls herself'Mother.' She is the very heart of me. She does not run about stupidlyand awkwardly, for she knows what she wants, she knows what she cando, she's as soft as a zephyr and as strong as a storm. she knowshow to begin a thing carefully, and to have her own way. She is mysoft temper, and the father is my hard one. They are two, and yet one.they each call the other 'My half.' These two have some little boys,young thoughts, that can grow. The little ones keep everything inorder. When, lately, in my wisdom, I let the father and the boysexamine my throat and the hole in my chest, to see what was going onthere, for something in me was out of order, and it's well to examineone's self, the little ones made a tremendous noise. The youngestjumped up into my hat, and shouted so there that it tickled me. Thelittle thoughts may grow I know that very well. and out in theworld thoughts come too, and not only of my kind, for as far as Ican see, I cannot discern anything like myself. but the winglesshouses, whose throats make no noise, have thoughts too, and these cometo my thoughts, and make love to them, as it is called. It's wonderfulenough yes, there are many wonderful things. Something has comeover me, or into me, something has changed in the mill work. It seemsas if the one half, the father, had altered, and had received a bettertemper and a more affectionate helpmate so young and good, and yetthe same, only more gentle and good through the course of time. Whatwas bitter has passed away, and the whole is much more comfortable."The days go on, and the days come nearer and nearer toclearness and to joy. and then a day will come when it will be overwith me. but not over altogether. I must be pulled down that I maybe built up again. I shall cease, but yet shall live on. To becomequite a different being, and yet remain the same! That's difficult forme to understand, however enlightened I may be with sun, moon,stearine, train oil, and tallow. My old wood work and my oldbrick work will rise again from the dust!"I will hope that I may keep my old thoughts, the father in themill, and the mother, great ones and little ones the family. for Icall them all, great and little, the company of thoughts, because Imust, and cannot refrain from it."And I must also remain 'myself,' with my throat in my chest, mywings on my head, the gallery round my body. else I should not knowmyself, nor could the others know me, and say, 'There's the mill onthe hill, proud to look at, and yet not proud at all.'"That is what the mill said. Indeed, it said much more, but that isthe most important part.And the days came, and the days went, and yesterday was the lastday.Then the mill caught fire. The flames rose up high, and beat outand in, and bit at the beams and planks, and ate them up. The millfell, and nothing remained of it but a heap of ashes. The smokedrove across the scene of the conflagration, and the wind carried itaway.Whatever had been alive in the mill remained, and what had beengained by it has nothing to do with this story.The miller's family one soul, many thoughts, and yet only one builta new, a splendid mill, which answered its purpose. It was quitelike the old one, and people said, "Why, yonder is the mill on thehill, proud to look at!" But this mill was better arranged, moreaccording to the time than the last, so that progress might be made.The old beams had become worm eaten and spongy they lay in dust andashes. The body of the mill did not rise out of the dust as they hadbelieved it would do. They had taken it literally, and all thingsare not to be taken literally.