There was a marriage in the townland of Curragraigue. After the usualfestivities, and when the guests were left to themselves, and weredrinking to the prosperity of the bride and bridegroom, they were startledby the appearance of the man himself rushing into the room with anguish inhis looks."Oh!" cried he, "Margaret is carried away by the fairies, I'm sure. Thegirls were not left the room for half a minute when I went in, and thereis no more sign of her there than if she never was born."Great consternation prevailed, great search was made, but no Margaretwas to be found. After a night and day spent in misery, the poorbridegroom laid down to take some rest. In a while he seemed to himself toawake from a troubled dream, and look out into the room. The moon wasshining in through the window, and in the middle of the slanting raysstood Margaret in her white bridal clothes. He thought to speak and leapout of the bed, but his tongue was without utterance, and his limbs unableto move."Do not be disturbed, dear husband," said the appearance. "I am now inthe power of the fairies, but if you only have courage and prudence we maybe soon happy with each other again. Next Friday will be May eve, and thewhole court will ride out of the old fort after midnight. I must be therealong with the rest. Sprinkle a circle with holy water, and have ablack hafted knife with you. If you have courage to pull me off the horse,and draw me into the ring, all they can do will be useless. You must havesome food for me every night on the dresser, for if I taste one mouthfulwith them, I will be lost to you forever. The fairies got power over mebecause I was only thinking of you, and did not prepare myself as I oughtfor the sacrament. I made a bad confession, and now I am suffering for it.Don't forget what I have said.""Oh, no, my darling," cried he, recovering his speech, but by the timehe had slipped out of bed, there was no living soul in the room buthimself.Till Friday night the poor young husband spent a desolate time. Thefood was left on the dresser over night, and it rejoiced all hearts tofind it vanished by morning. A little before midnight he was at theentrance of the old rath. He formed the circle, took his station withinit, and kept the black hafted knife ready for service. At times he wasnervously afraid of losing his dear wife, and at others burning withimpatience for the struggle.At last the old fort with its dark high bushy fences cutting againstthe sky, was in a moment replaced by a palace and its court. A thousandlights flashed from the windows and lofty hall entrance. numerous torcheswere brandished by attendants stationed round the courtyard. and anumerous cavalcade of richly attired ladies and gentlemen was moving inthe direction of the gate where he found himself standing.As they rode by him laughing and jesting, he could not tell whetherthey were aware of his presence or not. He looked intent at eachcountenance as it approached, but it was some time before he caught sightof the dear face and figure borne along on a milk white steed. Sherecognized him well enough, and her features now broke into a smile   nowexpressed deep anxiety.She was unable for the throng to guide the animal close to the ring ofpower. so he suddenly rushed out of his bounds, seized her in his arms,and lifted her off. Cries of rage and fury arose on every side. they werehemmed in, and weapons were directed at his head and breast to terrifyhim. He seemed to be inspired with superhuman courage and force, andwielding the powerful knife he soon cleared a space round him, all seemingdismayed by the sight of the weapon. He lost no time, but drew his wifewithin the ring, within which none of the myriads round dared to enter.Shouts of derision and defiance continued to fill the air for some time,but the expedition could not be delayed.As the end of the procession filed past the gate and the circle withinwhich the mortal pair held each other determinedly clasped, darkness andsilence fell on the old rath and the fields round it, and the rescuedbride and her lover breathed freely. We will not detain the sensitivereader on the happy walk home, on the joy that hailed their arrival, andon all the eager gossip that occupied the townland and the five thatsurround it for a month after the happy rescue.