IN times of yore there was a King and a Queen in the south of Irelandwho had three sons, all beautiful children. but the Queen, their mother,sickened unto death when they were yet very young, which caused greatgrief throughout the Court, particularly to the King, her husband, whocould in no wise be comforted. Seeing that death was drawing near her,she called the King to her and spoke as follows:'I am now going to leave you, and as you are young and in your prime, ofcourse after my death you will marry again. Now all the request I ask ofyou is that you will build a tower in an island in the sea, wherein youwill keep your three sons until they are come of age and fit to do forthemselves. so that they may not be under the power or jurisdiction ofany other woman. Neglect not to give them education suitable totheir birth, and let them be trained up to every exercise and pastimerequisite for king's sons to learn. This is all I have to say, sofarewell.'The King had scarce time, with tears in his eyes, to assure her sheshould be obeyed in everything, when she, turning herself in her bed,with a smile gave up the ghost. Never was greater mourning seen than wasthroughout the Court and the whole kingdom. for a better woman thanthe Queen, to rich and poor, was not to be found in the world. She wasinterred with great pomp and magnificence, and the King, her husband,became in a manner inconsolable for the loss of her. However, he causedthe tower to be built and his sons placed in it, under proper guardians,according to his promise.In process of time the lords and knights of the kingdom counselled theKing (as he was young) to live no longer as he had done, but to takea wife. which counsel prevailing, they chose him a rich and beautifulprincess to be his consort a neighbouring King's daughter, of whom hewas very fond. Not long after, the Queen had a fine son, which causedgreat feasting and rejoicing at the Court, insomuch that the late Queen,in a manner, was entirely forgotten. That fared well, and King and Queenlived happy together for several years.At length the Queen, having some business with the hen wife, wentherself to her, and, after a long conference passed, was taking leave ofher, when the hen wife prayed that if ever she should come back to heragain she might break her neck. The Queen, greatly incensed at such adaring insult from one of her meanest subjects, demanded immediately thereason, or she would have her put to death.'It was worth your while, madam,' says the hen wife, 'to pay me well forit, for the reason I prayed so on you concerns you much.''What must I pay you?' asked the Queen.'You must give me,' says she, 'the full of a pack of wool, and I have anancient crock which you must fill with butter, likewise a barrel whichyou must fill for me full of wheat.''How much wool will it take to the pack?' says the Queen.'It will take seven herds of sheep,' said she, 'and their increase forseven years.''How much butter will it take to fill your crock?''Seven dairies,' said she, 'and their increase for seven years.''And how much will it take to fill the barrel you have?' says the Queen.'It will take the increase of seven barrels of wheat for seven years.''That is a great quantity,' says the Queen. 'but the reason must beextraordinary, and before I want it, I will give you all you demand.''Well,' says the hen wife, 'it is because you are so stupid that youdon't observe or find out those affairs that are so dangerous andhurtful to yourself and your child.''What is that?' says the Queen.'Why,' says she, 'the King your husband has three fine sons he had bythe late Queen, whom he keeps shut up in a tower until they come of age,intending to divide the kingdom between them, and let your son pushhis fortune. now, if you don't find some means of destroying them. yourchild and perhaps yourself will be left desolate in the end.''And what would you advise me to do?' said she. 'I am wholly at a lossin what manner to act in this affair.''You must make known to the King,' says the hen wife, 'that you heard ofhis sons, and wonder greatly that he concealed them all this time fromyou. tell him you wish to see them, and that it is full time for them tobe liberated, and that you would be desirous he would bring them tothe Court. The King will then do so, and there will be a great feastprepared on that account, and also diversions of every sort to amuse thepeople. and in these sports,' said she, 'ask the King's sons to playa game at cards with you, which they will not refuse. Now,' saysthe hen wife, 'you must make a bargain, that if you win they must dowhatever you command them, and if they win, that you must do whateverthey command you to do. this bargain must be made before the assembly,and here is a pack of cards,' says she, 'that I am thinking you will notlose by.'The Queen immediately took the cards, and, after returning the hen wifethanks for her kind instruction, went back to the palace, where shewas quite uneasy until she got speaking to the King in regard of hischildren. at last she broke it off to him in a very polite and engagingmanner, so that he could see no muster or design in it. He readilyconsented to her desire, and his sons were sent for to the tower,who gladly came to Court, rejoicing that they were freed from suchconfinement. They were all very handsome, and very expert in all artsand exercises, so that they gained the love and esteem of all that hadseen them.The Queen, more jealous with them than ever, thought it an age untilall the feasting and rejoicing was over, that she might get making herproposal, depending greatly on the power of the hen wife's cards. Atlength this royal assembly began to sport and play at all kinds ofdiversions, and the Queen very cunningly challenged the three Princesto play at cards with her, making bargain with them as she had beeninstructed.They accepted the challenge, and the eldest son and she played the firstgame, which she won. then the second son played, and she won that gamelikewise. the third son and she then played the last game, and he wonit, which sorely grieved her that she had not him in her power as wellas the rest, being by far the handsomest and most beloved of the three.However, everyone was anxious to hear the Queen's commands in regard tothe two Princes, not thinking that she had any ill design in her headagainst them. Whether it was the hen wife instructed her, or whether itwas from her own knowledge, I cannot tell. but she gave out they mustgo and bring her the Knight of the Glen's wild Steed of Bells, or theyshould lose their heads.The young Princes were not in the least concerned, not knowing what theyhad to do. but the whole Court was amazed at her demand, knowing verywell that it was impossible for them ever to get the steed, as all thatever sought him perished in the attempt. However, they could not retractthe bargain, and the youngest Prince was desired to tell what demand hehad on the Queen, as he had won his game.'My brothers,' says he, 'are now going to travel, and, as I understand,a perilous journey wherein they know not what road to take or what mayhappen them. I am resolved, therefore, not to stay here, but to go withthem, let what will betide. and I request and command, according to mybargain, that the Queen shall stand on the highest tower of the palaceuntil we come back (or find out that we are certainly dead), withnothing but sheaf corn for her food and cold water for her drink, if itshould be for seven years and longer.'All things being now fixed, the three princes departed the Court insearch of the Knight of the Glen's palace, and travelling along the roadthey came up with a man who was a little lame, and seemed to be somewhatadvanced in years. they soon fell into discourse, and the youngest ofthe princes asked the stranger his name, or what was the reason he woreso remarkable a black cap as he saw on him.'I am called,' said he, 'the Thief of Sloan, and sometimes theBlack Thief from my cap. 'and so telling the prince the most of hisadventures, he asked him again where they were bound for, or what theywere about.The prince, willing to gratify his request, told him their affairs fromthe beginning to the end. 'And now,' said he, 'we are travelling, and donot know whether we are on the right road or not.''Ah! my brave fellows,' says the Black Thief, 'you little know thedanger you run. I am after that steed myself these seven years, andcan never steal him on account of a silk covering he has on him in thestable, with sixty bells fixed to it, and whenever you approach theplace he quickly observes it and shakes himself. which, by the soundof the bells, not only alarms the prince and his guards, but the wholecountry round, so that it is impossible ever to get him, and those thatare so unfortunate as to be taken by the Knight of the Glen are boiledin a red hot fiery furnace.''Bless me,' says the young prince, 'what will we do? If we returnwithout the steed we will lose our heads, so I see we are ill fixed onboth sides.''Well,' says the Thief of Sloan, 'if it were my case I would ratherdie by the Knight than by the wicked Queen. besides, I will go with youmyself and show you the road, and whatever fortune you will have, I willtake chance of the same.'They returned him sincere thanks for his kindness, and he, being wellacquainted with the road, in a short time brought them within view ofthe knight's castle.'Now,' says he, 'we must stay here till night comes. for I know all theways of the place, and if there be any chance for it, it is when theyare all at rest. for the steed is all the watch the knight keeps there.'Accordingly, in the dead hour of the night, the King's three sons andthe Thief of Sloan attempted the Steed of Bells in order to carry himaway, but before they could reach the stables the steed neighed mostterribly and shook himself so, and the bells rung with such noise, thatthe knight and all his men were up in a moment.The Black Thief and the King's sons thought to make their escape,but they were suddenly surrounded by the knight's guards and takenprisoners. where they were brought into that dismal part of the palacewhere the knight kept a furnace always boiling, in which he threwall offenders that ever came in his way, which in a few moments wouldentirely consume them.'Audacious villains!' says the Knight of the Glen, 'how dare you attemptso bold an action as to steal my steed? See, now, the reward of yourfolly. for your greater punishment I will not boil you all together,but one after the other, so that he that survives may witness the direafflictions of his unfortunate companions.'So saying he ordered his servants to stir up the fire: 'We will boilthe eldest looking of these young men first,' said he, 'and so on to thelast, which will be this old champion with the black cap. He seems to bethe captain, and looks as if he had come through many toils.''I was as near death once as the prince is yet,' says the Black Thief,'and escaped. and so will he too.''No, you never were,' said the knight. 'for he is within two or threeminutes of his latter end.''But,' says the Black Thief, 'I was within one moment of my death, and Iam here yet.''How was that?' says the knight. 'I would be glad to hear it, for itseems impossible.''If you think, sir knight,' says the Black Thief, 'that the danger I wasin surpasses that of this young man, will you pardon him his crime?''I will,' says the knight, 'so go on with your story.''I was, sir,' says he, 'a very wild boy in my youth, and came throughmany distresses. once in particular, as I was on my rambling, I wasbenighted and could find no lodging. At length I came to an old kiln,and being much fatigued I went up and lay on the ribs. I had not beenlong there when I saw three witches coming in with three bags of gold.Each put their bags of gold under their heads, as if to sleep. I heardone of them say to the other that if the Black Thief came on them whilethey slept, he would not leave them a penny. I found by their discoursethat everybody had got my name into their mouth, though I kept silent asdeath during their discourse. At length they fell fast asleep, and thenI stole softly down, and seeing some turf convenient, I placed oneunder each of their heads, and off I went, with their gold, as fast as Icould.'I had not gone far,' continued the Thief of Sloan, 'until I saw agrey hound, a hare, and a hawk in pursuit of me, and began to think itmust be the witches that had taken the shapes in order that I might notescape them unseen either by land or water. Seeing they did not appearin any formidable shape, I was more than once resolved to attack them,thinking that with my broad sword I could easily destroy them. Butconsidering again that it was perhaps still in their power to becomealive again, I gave over the attempt and climbed with difficulty upa tree, bringing my sword in my hand and all the gold along with me.However, when they came to the tree they found what I had done, andmaking further use of their hellish art, one of them was changed into asmith's anvil and another into a piece of iron, of which the third soonmade a hatchet. Having the hatchet made, she fell to cutting down thetree, and in the course of an hour it began to shake with me. At lengthit began to bend, and I found that one or two blows at the most wouldput it down. I then began to think that my death was inevitable,considering that those who were capable of doing so much would soon endmy life. but just as she had the stroke drawn that would terminate myfate, the cock crew, and the witches disappeared, having resumed theirnatural shapes for fear of being known, and I got safe off with my bagsof gold.'Now, sir,' says he to the Knight of the Glen, 'if that be not as greatan adventure as ever you heard, to be within one blow of a hatchet ofmy end, and that blow even drawn, and after all to escape, I leave it toyourself.''Well, I cannot say but it is very extraordinary,' says the Knight ofthe Glen, 'and on that account pardon this young man his crime. so stirup the fire, till I boil this second one.''Indeed,' says the Black Thief, 'I would fain think he would not diethis time either.''How so?' says the knight. 'it is impossible for him to escape.''I escaped death more wonderfully myself,' says the Thief of Sloan,'than if you had him ready to throw into the furnace, and I hope it willbe the case with him likewise.''Why, have you been in another great danger?' says the knight. 'I wouldbe glad to hear the story too, and if it be as wonderful as the last, Iwill pardon this young man as I did the other.''My way of living, sir,' says the Black Thief, 'was not good, as I toldyou before. and being at a certain time fairly run out of cash, andmeeting with no enterprise worthy of notice, I was reduced to greatstraits. At length a rich bishop died in the neighbourhood I was thenin, and I heard he was interred with a great deal of jewels and richrobes upon him, all which I intended in a short time to be master of.Accordingly that very night I set about it, and coming to the place, Iunderstood he was placed at the further end of a long dark vault, whichI slowly entered. I had not gone in far until I heard a foot comingtowards me with a quick pace, and although naturally bold and daring,yet, thinking of the deceased bishop and the crime I was engaged in, Ilost courage, and ran towards the entrance of the vault. I had retreatedbut a few paces when I observed, between me and the light, the figure ofa tall black man standing in the entrance. Being in great fear and notknowing how to pass, I fired a pistol at him, and he immediately fellacross the entrance. Perceiving he still retained the figure of amortal man, I began to imagine that it could not be the bishop's ghost.recovering myself therefore from the fear I was in, I ventured to theupper end of the vault, where I found a large bundle, and upon furtherexamination I found that the corpse was already rifled, and that whichI had taken to be a ghost was no more than one of his own clergy. I wasthen very sorry that I had the misfortune to kill him, but it then couldnot be helped. I took up the bundle that contained everything belongingto the corpse that was valuable, intending to take my departure fromthis melancholy abode. but just as I came to the mouth of the entrance Isaw the guards of the place coming towards me, and distinctly heard themsaying that they would look in the vault, for that the Black Thief wouldthink little of robbing the corpse if he was anywhere in the place.I did not then know in what manner to act, for if I was seen I wouldsurely lose my life, as everybody had a look out at that time, andbecause there was no person bold enough to come in on me. I knew verywell on the first sight of me that could be got, I would be shot like adog. However, I had not time to lose. I took and raised up the man whichI had killed, as if he was standing on his feet, and I, crouching behindhim, bore him up as well as I could, so that the guards readily saw himas they came up to the vault. Seeing the man in black, one of the mencried that was the Black Thief, and, presenting his piece, fired atthe man, at which I let him fall, and crept into a little dark cornermyself, that was at the entrance of the place. When they saw the manfall, they ran all into the vault, and never stopped until they were atthe end of it, for fear, as I thought, that there might be some othersalong with him that was killed. But while they were busy inspecting thecorpse and the vault to see what they could miss, I slipped out, and,once away, and still away. but they never had the Black Thief in theirpower since.''Well, my brave fellow,' says the Knight of the Glen, 'I see you havecome through many dangers: you have freed these two princes by yourstories. but I am sorry myself that this young prince has to suffer forall. Now, if you could tell me something as wonderful as you have toldalready, I would pardon him likewise. I pity this youth and do not wantto put him to death if I could help it.''That happens well,' says the Thief of Sloan, 'for I like him bestmyself, and have reserved the most curious passage for the last on hisaccount.''Well, then,' says the knight, 'let us hear it.''I was one day on my travels,' says the Black Thief, 'and I came into alarge forest, where I wandered a long time, and could not get out of it.At length I came to a large castle, and fatigue obliged me to call inthe same, where I found a young woman and a child sitting on her knee,and she crying. I asked her what made her cry, and where the lord of thecastle was, for I wondered greatly that I saw no stir of servants or anyperson about the place.'"It is well for you," says the young woman, "that the lord of thiscastle is not at home at present. for he is a monstrous giant, with butone eye on his forehead, who lives on human flesh. He brought me thischild," says she, "I do not know where he got it, and ordered me tomake it into a pie, and I cannot help crying at the command."'I told her that if she knew of any place convenient that I could leavethe child safely I would do it, rather than it should be killed by sucha monster.'She told me of a house a distance off where I would get a woman whowould take care of it. "But what will I do in regard of the pie?"'"Cut a finger off it," said I, "and I will bring you in a youngwild pig out of the forest, which you may dress as if it was the child,and put the finger in a certain place, that if the giant doubts anythingabout it you may know where to turn it over at the first, and when hesees it he will be fully satisfied that the pie is made of the child."'She agreed to the scheme I proposed, and, cutting off the child'sfinger, by her direction I soon had it at the house she told me of, andbrought her the little pig in the place of it. She then made ready thepie, and after eating and drinking heartily myself, I was just taking myleave of the young woman when we observed the giant coming through thecastle gates.'"Bless me," said she, "what will you do now? Run away and lie downamong the dead bodies that he has in the room (showing me the place),and strip off your clothes that he may not know you from the rest if hehas occasion to go that way."'I took her advice, and laid myself down among the rest, as if dead, tosee how he would behave. The first thing I heard was him calling for hispie. When she set it down before him he swore it smelled like swine'sflesh, but knowing where to find the finger, she immediately turned itup, which fairly convinced him of the contrary. The pie only served tosharpen his appetite, and I heard him sharpening his knife and saying hemust have a collop or two, for he was not near satisfied. But what wasmy terror when I heard the giant groping among the bodies, and, fancyingmyself, cut the half of my hip off, and took it with him to be roasted.You may be certain I was in great pain, but the fear of being killedprevented me from making any complaint. However, when he had eaten allhe began to drink hot liquors in great abundance, so that in a shorttime he could not hold up his head, but threw himself on a large creelhe had made for the purpose, and fell fast asleep. When I heard himsnoring, as I was I went up and caused the woman to bind my wound with ahandkerchief. and, taking the giant's spit, reddened it in the fire, andran it through the eye, but was not able to kill him.'However, I left the spit sticking in his head, and took to my heels.but I soon found he was in pursuit of me, although blind. and having anenchanted ring he threw it at me, and it fell on my big toe and remainedfastened to it.'The giant then called to the ring, where it was, and to my greatsurprise it made him answer on my foot. and he, guided by the same,made a leap at me which I had the good luck to observe, and fortunatelyescaped the danger. However, I found running was of no use in saving me,as long as I had the ring on my foot. so I took my sword and cut off thetoe it was fastened on, and threw both into a large fish pond that wasconvenient. The giant called again to the ring, which by the power ofenchantment always made him answer. but he, not knowing what I had done,imagined it was still on some part of me, and made a violent leapto seize me, when he went into the pond, over head and ears, and wasdrowned. Now, sir knight,' says the Thief of Sloan, 'you see whatdangers I came through and always escaped. but, indeed, I am lame forthe want of my toe ever since.''My lord and master,' says an old woman that was listening all the time,'that story is but too true, as I well know, for I am the very womanthat was in the giant's castle, and you, my lord, the child that I wasto make into a pie. and this is the very man that saved your life, whichyou may know by the want of your finger that was taken off, as you haveheard, to deceive the giant.'The Knight of the Glen, greatly surprised at what he had heard the oldwoman tell, and knowing he wanted his finger from his childhood, beganto understand that the story was true enough.'And is this my deliverer?' says he. 'O brave fellow, I not only pardonyou all, but will keep you with myself while you live, where you shallfeast like princes, and have every attendance that I have myself.'They all returned thanks on their knees, and the Black Thief told himthe reason they attempted to steal the Steed of Bells, and the necessitythey were under in going home.'Well,' says the Knight of the Glen, 'if that's the case I bestow you mysteed rather than this brave fellow should die. so you may go when youplease, only remember to call and see me betimes, that we may know eachother well.'They promised they would, and with great joy they set off for the Kingtheir father's palace, and the Black Thief along with them.The wicked Queen was standing all this time on the tower, and, hearingthe bells ringing at a great distance off, knew very well it was theprinces coming home, and the steed with them, and through spite andvexation precipitated herself from the tower and was shattered topieces.The three princes lived happy and well during their father's reign, andalways keeping the Black Thief along with them. but how they did afterthe old King's death is not known.(4)(4) The Hibernian Tales.