Not long ago there lived in Frankenberg a midwife who could tell manyamazing things about the elves, for once she had spent an entire eightdays among them observing their deeds and ways.One dark night when all the neighbors were sound asleep a loud knockingat the house door had awakened the woman. She jumped up and peered throughthe window, but she could see nothing except for a lantern in front of thehouse.Then a voice called out, "Throw on your clothes and come with me. Awoman is in need of your service!"The midwife did what she had been asked, went down, and with hesitatingsteps followed the lantern, which was already one street ahead of her. Shecould not see the person who was carrying it. Thus it went throughseveral streets, then out through the convent gate, and then a good waybeyond the town.Finally the light stopped moving. A hidden trapdoor opened, and manysteps led underground. Trembling and praying, the midwife followed hermysterious leader, and before long she found herself in a roomy chambersurrounded by elves, who cordially welcomed her. Before she had time torecover from her surprise, one of the little people stepped up to her andasked her to follow him to the woman for whose sake she had been summoned.Soon afterward a tiny, cute elf came to the world. Since mother andchild were both doing well, the midwife hoped that she would be able toreturn to her own people the next morning. But that was not so. The elvesdid not want to let her go. Each day they treated her better than the daybefore, giving her everything that she could want.During this time the elves often went out, not returning unless theywere loaded down with all kinds of pretty things. Before leaving theyalways rubbed their eyes with a liquid which they kept in a glass. Theold woman noticed this, and once when the little people had gone out shefound the glass and put a little of its contents on her right eye.In the meantime eight days had passed, and the elves no longerresisted the old woman's request. As soon as it was dark they allowed herto return home, saying, "For your reward take along those sweepings behindthe door!"Smart enough to not despise the unusual gift, she brushed the sweepingsinto her apron. Then with good cheer she followed the lantern, which   ashad happened eight days earlier   was carried on ahead by an invisiblehand.A half hour later she arrived safely at home, much to the amazement ofher husband, who for eight days had been terribly worried over herdisappearance. She told him everything that had happened and then shookthe sweepings that she was carrying in her apron onto the table beforehim.Oh, how the old people's hearts leapt for joy! How their eyes gleamed!How they stood there in silence, fearing that one little word of gladnessmight cause the dream to vanish that now so enraptured them! Finally theyfound their tongues. Their amazement turned to words, and they saw that itwas no dream. It was pure reality. Lying on the table was a pile ofglistening gold pieces!Some time later there was a fair in Frankenberg. The midwife, who hadsuddenly become rich, walked among the market booths looking and fromtime to time making a purchase. Suddenly she saw the elves scatteredthroughout the crowd. Unseen by others they were skillfully plundering thetables and booths. This she could see with her right eye, which she hadrubbed with the liquid at the time she was with the elves.She could not stand to see the little thieves freely getting away withthis, so she called out, "Hey! What are you doing?"The elves recognized her and asked, "Which eye can you see us with?"She answered, "With the right one."Then they blew into her right eye, and in that instant it became like ablack night. She never saw the elves again, and for as long as she livedshe remained blind in her right eye.