(17) From the Polish. Kletke.There was once upon a time a witch, who in the shape of a hawk usedevery night to break the windows of a certain village church. In thesame village there lived three brothers, who were all determined to killthe mischievous hawk. But in vain did the two eldest mount guard in thechurch with their guns. as soon as the bird appeared high above theirheads, sleep overpowered them, and they only awoke to hear the windowscrashing in.Then the youngest brother took his turn of guarding the windows, and toprevent his being overcome by sleep he placed a lot of thorns under hischin, so that if he felt drowsy and nodded his head, they would prickhim and keep him awake.The moon was already risen, and it was as light as day, when suddenly heheard a fearful noise, and at the same time a terrible desire to sleepoverpowered him.His eyelids closed, and his head sank on his shoulders, but the thornsran into him and were so painful that he awoke at once. He saw the hawkswooping down upon the church, and in a moment he had seized his gunand shot at the bird. The hawk fell heavily under a big stone, severelywounded in its right wing. The youth ran to look at it, and saw thata huge abyss had opened below the stone. He went at once to fetch hisbrothers, and with their help dragged a lot of pine wood and ropes tothe spot. They fastened some of the burning pine wood to the end of therope, and let it slowly down to the bottom of the abyss. At first it wasquite dark, and the flaming torch only lit up dirty grey stone walls.But the youngest brother determined to explore the abyss, and lettinghimself down by the rope he soon reached the bottom. Here he found alovely meadow full of green trees and exquisite flowers.In the middle of the meadow stood a huge stone castle, with an iron gateleading to it, which was wide open. Everything in the castle seemedto be made of copper, and the only inhabitant he could discover wasa lovely girl, who was combing her golden hair. and he noticed thatwhenever one of her hairs fell on the ground it rang out like puremetal. The youth looked at her more closely, and saw that her skin wassmooth and fair, her blue eyes bright and sparkling, and her hair asgolden as the sun. He fell in love with her on the spot, and kneeling ather feet, he implored her to become his wife.The lovely girl accepted his proposal gladly. but at the same time shewarned him that she could never come up to the world above till hermother, the old witch, was dead. And she went on to tell him that theonly way in which the old creature could be killed was with the swordthat hung up in the castle. but the sword was so heavy that no one couldlift it.Then the youth went into a room in the castle where everything was madeof silver, and here he found another beautiful girl, the sister of hisbride. She was combing her silver hair, and every hair that fell on theground rang out like pure metal. The second girl handed him the sword,but though he tried with all his strength he could not lift it. At lasta third sister came to him and gave him a drop of something to drink,which she said would give him the needful strength. He drank one drop,but still he could not lift the sword. then he drank a second, and thesword began to move. but only after he had drunk a third drop was heable to swing the sword over his head.Then he hid himself in the castle and awaited the old witch's arrival.At last as it was beginning to grow dark she appeared. She swooped downupon a big apple tree, and after shaking some golden apples from it, shepounced down upon the earth. As soon as her feet touched the ground shebecame transformed from a hawk into a woman. This was the moment theyouth was waiting for, and he swung his mighty sword in the air with allhis strength and the witch's head fell off, and her blood spurted up onthe walls.Without fear of any further danger, he packed up all the treasures ofthe castle into great chests, and gave his brothers a signal to pullthem up out of the abyss. First the treasures were attached to the ropeand then the three lovely girls. And now everything was up above andonly he himself remained below. But as he was a little suspicious of hisbrothers, he fastened a heavy stone on to the rope and let them pull itup. At first they heaved with a will, but when the stone was half wayup they let it drop suddenly, and it fell to the bottom broken into ahundred pieces.'So that's what would have happened to my bones had I trusted myself tothem,' said the youth sadly. and he began to cry bitterly, not becauseof the treasures, but because of the lovely girl with her swanlike neckand golden hair.For a long time he wandered sadly all through the beautiful underworld,and one day he met a magician who asked him the cause of his tears. Theyouth told him all that had befallen him, and the magician said:'Do not grieve, young man! If you will guard the children who are hiddenin the golden apple tree, I will bring you at once up to the earth.Another magician who lives in this land always eats my children up. Itis in vain that I have hidden them under the earth and locked them intothe castle. Now I have hidden them in the apple tree. hide yourselfthere too, and at midnight you will see my enemy.'The youth climbed up the tree, and picked some of the beautiful goldenapples, which he ate for his supper.At midnight the wind began to rise, and a rustling sound was heard atthe foot of the tree. The youth looked down and beheld a long thickserpent beginning to crawl up the tree. It wound itself round the stemand gradually got higher and higher. It stretched its huge head, inwhich the eyes glittered fiercely, among the branches, searching for thenest in which the little children lay. They trembled with terror whenthey saw the hideous creature, and hid themselves beneath the leaves.Then the youth swung his mighty sword in the air, and with one blow cutoff the serpent's head. He cut up the rest of the body into little bitsand strewed them to the four winds.The father of the rescued children was so delighted over the death ofhis enemy that he told the youth to get on his back, and in this way hecarried him up to the world above.With what joy did he hurry now to his brothers' house! He burst into aroom where they were all assembled, but no one knew who he was. Only hisbride, who was serving as cook to her sisters, recognised her lover atonce.His brothers, who had quite believed he was dead, yielded him up histreasures at once, and flew into the woods in terror. But the good youthforgave them all they had done, and divided his treasures with them.Then he built himself a big castle with golden windows, and there helived happily with his golden haired wife till the end of their lives.