Witchcraft is not named in the next story, but we can scarcely be wrong inassuming it to be the agent at work in it. We must premise that it was,perhaps still is, customary in the Lowlands of Scotland, as in othersecluded districts, for tailors to leave their workshops and go into thefarmhouses of the neighborhood to work by the day.The farmer's wife of Deloraine thus engaged a tailor with his workmen andapprentices for the day, begging them to come in good time in the morning.They did so, and partook of the family breakfast of porridge and milk.During the meal, one of the apprentices observed that the milk jug wasalmost empty, on which the mistress slipped out of the back door with abasin in her hand to get a fresh supply.The lad's curiosity was roused, for he had heard there was no more milk inthe house. so he crept after her, hid himself behind the door, and saw herturn a pin in the wall, on which a stream of pure milk flowed into thebasin. She twirled the pin, and the milk stopped. Coming back, shepresented the tailors with the bowl of milk, and they gladly washed downthe rest of their porridge with it.About noon, while our tailors were busily engaged with the gudeman'swardrobe, one of them complained of thirst, and wished for a bowl of milklike the morning's."Is that a'?" said the apprentice. "ye'se get that."The mistress was out of the way, so he left his work, found his way to thespot he had marked in the morning, twirled the pin, and quickly filled abasin. But, alas! he could not then stay the stream. Twist the pin as hewould, the milk still continued to flow. He called the other lads, andimplored them to come and help him. but they could only bring such tubsand buckets as they found in the kitchen, and these were soon filled.When the confusion was at its height, the mistress appeared among them,looking as black as thunder. while she called out, in a mocking voice,"A'ye loons! Ye hae drawn a' the milk fra every coo between the head o'Yarrow an' the foot o't. This day ne'er a coo will gie her maister a dropo' milk, though he war gawing to starve."The tailors slunk away abashed, and from that day forward the wives ofDeloraine have fed their tailors on nothing but chappit 'taties and kale.