There once lived in a small town in China a man named Hok Lee. He was asteady industrious man, who not only worked hard at his trade, but did allhis own housework as well, for he had no wife to do it for him. "Whatan excellent industrious man is this Hok Lee!" said his neighbors. "howhard he works: he never leaves his house to amuse himself or to take aholiday as others do!" But Hok Lee was by no means the virtuous personhis neighbors thought him. True, he worked hard enough by day, but atnight, when all respectable folk were fast asleep, he used to steal outand join a dangerous band of robbers, who broke into rich people's housesand carried off all they could lay hands on. This state of things went onfor some time, and, though a thief was caught now and then and punished,no suspicion ever fell on Hok Lee, he was such a very respectable,hardworking man. Hok Lee had already amassed a good store of money ashis share of the proceeds of these robberies when it happened one morningon going to market that a neighbor said to him: "Why, Hok Lee, what isthe matter with your face? One side of it is all swelled up." Trueenough, Hok Lee's right cheek was twice the size of his left, and it soonbegan to feel very uncomfortable. "I will bind up my face," said HokLee. "doubtless the warmth will cure the swelling." But no such thing.Next day it was worse, and day by day it grew bigger and bigger till itwas nearly as large as his head and became very painful. Hok Lee was athis wits' ends what to do. Not only was his cheek unsightly and painful,but his neighbors began to jeer and make fun of him, which hurt hisfeelings very much indeed. One day, as luck would have it, a travelingdoctor came to the town. He sold not only all kinds of medicine, but alsodealt in many strange charms against witches and evil spirits. Hok Leedetermined to consult him, and asked him into his house. After thedoctor had examined him carefully, he spoke thus: "This, O Hok Lee, is noordinary swelled face. I strongly suspect you have been doing some wrongdeed which has called down the anger of the spirits on you. None of mydrugs will avail to cure you, but, if you are willing to pay mehandsomely, I can tell you how you may be cured." Then Hok Lee and thedoctor began to bargain together, and it was a long time before they couldcome to terms. However, the doctor got the better of it in the end, forhe was determined not to part with his secret under a certain price, andHok Lee had no mind to carry his huge cheek about with him to the end ofhis days. So he was obliged to part with the greater portion of hisill gotten gains. When the Doctor had pocketed the money, he told HokLee to go on the first night of the full moon to a certain wood and thereto watch by a particular tree. After a time he would see the dwarfs andlittle sprites who live underground come out to dance. When they saw himthey would be sure to make him dance too. "And mind you dance your verybest," added the doctor. "If you dance well and please them they willgrant you a petition and you can then beg to be cured. but if you dancebadly they will most likely do you some mischief out of spite." With thathe took leave and departed. Happily the first night of the full moonwas near, and at the proper time Hok Lee set out for the wood. With alittle trouble he found the tree the doctor had described, and, feelingnervous, he climbed up into it. He had hardly settled himself on abranch when he saw the little dwarfs assembling in the moonlight. Theycame from all sides, till at length there appeared to be hundreds of them.They seemed in high glee, and danced and skipped and capered about, whilstHok Lee grew so eager watching them that he crept further and furtheralong his branch till at length it gave a loud crack. All the dwarfsstood still, and Hok Lee felt as if his heart stood still also. Thenone of the dwarfs called out, "Someone is up in that tree. Come down atonce, whoever you are, or we must come and fetch you." In great terror,Hok Lee proceeded to come down. but he was so nervous that he tripped nearthe ground and came rolling down in the most absurd manner. When he hadpicked himself up, he came forward with a low bow, and the dwarf who hadfirst spoken and who appeared to be the leader, said, "Now, then, who artthou, and what brings thee here?" So Hok Lee told him the sad story ofhis swelled cheek, and how he had been advised to come to the forest andbeg the dwarfs to cure him. "It is well," replied the dwarf. "We willsee about that. First, however, thou must dance before us. Should thydancing please us, perhaps we may be able to do something. but shouldstthou dance badly, we shall assuredly punish thee, so now take warning anddance away." With that, he and all the other dwarfs sat down in a largering, leaving Hok Lee to dance alone in the middle. He felt halffrightened to death, and besides was a good deal shaken by his fall fromthe tree and did not feel at all inclined to dance. But the dwarfs werenot to be trifled with. "Begin!" cried their leader, and "Begin!"shouted the rest in chorus. So in despair Hok Lee began. First hehopped on one foot and then on the other, but he was so stiff and sonervous that he made but a poor attempt, and after a time sank down on theground and vowed he could dance no more. The dwarfs were very angry.They crowded round Hok Lee and abused him. "Thou to come here to be cured,indeed!" they cried, "thou hast brought one big cheek with thee, but thoushalt take away two." And with that they ran off and disappeared, leavingHok Lee to find his way home as best he might. He hobbled away, wearyand depressed, and not a little anxious on account of the dwarfs'threat. Nor were his fears unfounded, for when he rose next morning hisleft cheek was swelled up as big as his right, and he could hardly see outof his eyes. Hok Lee felt in despair, and his neighbors jeered at him morethan ever. The doctor, too, had disappeared, so there was nothing for itbut to try the dwarfs once more. He waited a month till the first nightof the full moon came round again, and then he trudged back to the forest,and sat down under the tree from which he had fallen. He had not long towait. Ere long the dwarfs came trooping out till all were assembled."I don't feel quite easy," said one. "I feel as if some horrid human beingwere near us." When Hok Lee heard this he came forward and bent down tothe ground before the dwarfs, who came crowding round, and laughedheartily at his comical appearance with his two big cheeks. "What dostthou want?" they asked. and Hok Lee proceeded to tell them of his freshmisfortunes, and begged so hard to be allowed one more trial at dancingthat the dwarfs consented, for there is nothing they love so much as beingamused. Now, Hok Lee knew how much depended on his dancing well, so heplucked up a good spirit and began, first quite slowly, and faster bydegrees, and he danced so well and gracefully, and made such new andwonderful steps, that the dwarfs were quite delighted with him. Theyclapped their tiny hands, and shouted, "Well done, Hok Lee, well done, goon, dance more, for we are pleased." And Hok Lee danced on and on, tillhe really could dance no more, and was obliged to stop. Then the leaderof the dwarfs said, "We are well pleased, Hok Lee, and as a recompense forthy dancing thy face shall be cured. Farewell." With these words heand the other dwarfs vanished, and Hok Lee, putting his hands to his face,found to his great joy that his cheeks were reduced to their natural size.The way home seemed short and easy to him, and he went to bed happy, andresolved never to go out robbing again. Next day the whole town wasfull of the news of Hok's sudden cure. His neighbors questioned him, butcould get nothing from him, except the fact that he had discovered awonderful cure for all kinds of diseases. After a time a rich neighbor,who had been ill for some years, came, and offered to give Hok Lee a largesum of money if he would tell him how he might get cured. Hok Leeconsented on condition that he swore to keep the secret. He did so, andHok Lee told him of the dwarfs and their dances. The neighbor went off,carefully obeyed Hok Lee's directions, and was duly cured by the dwarfs.Then another and another came to Hok Lee to beg his secret, and from eachhe extracted a vow of secrecy and a large sum of money. This went on forsome years, so that at length Hok Lee became a very wealthy man, and endedhis days in peace and prosperity.