There was once a merchant who knew the language of beasts. But thisknowledge had been granted him only upon condition that, if he told thesecrets learnt by its means, he should instantly die. No one, not even hiswife, was aware that he was gifted beyond the common.One evening, standing near his stables, he heard an ox, which had justreturned from plowing, complaining bitterly of his hard labor, and askingthe ass on which the merchant rode to business how he might lighten it.The ass advised him to be very ill, to leave his food untouched and rollon the ground in pain when the plowman came to take him to the field. Theox took this advice, and next day his master was told he was too ill towork. The merchant prescribed rest and extra food for the ox, and orderedthat the donkey, which was strong and fat, should be yoked to the plow inhis place.That evening the merchant stood again by the stable, listening. Whenthe ass came in from plowing, the ox thanked him for his advice, andexpressed his intention to act upon it again next morning."I don't advise you to do that," said the ass, "if you value your life.Today while I was plowing, your master came and told the plowman to takeyou to the butcher's tomorrow, as you seemed ailing, and have you killedto save your life. For should you sicken and die, he would lose the valueof your carcass.""What shall I do?" cried the ox in terror."Be well and strong tomorrow morning," said the ass.At that the merchant, unaware that his wife stood near him, laughedaloud, and excited her curiosity. His evasive answers only made her moreinquisitive. and when he absolutely refused to satisfy her, she lost hertemper, and went to complain of him to her relations, who soon threatenedhim with a divorce. The poor man, who really loved his wife, in despairresolved to tell her all and die. So he put his affairs in order, made hiswill, and promised to content her on the morrow.Next morning, at a window overlooking the stable yard, where the cockwas gallanting with a number of hens, he heard his watchdog reprove thebird for such light conduct on a day of grief."Why! What is the matter?" inquired the cock.The dog told the story of their master's trouble, when the cockexclaimed, "Our master is a fool. He cannot keep one wife in order while Ihave no trouble with twenty. He has only to take a stick and give hismistress a sound thrashing to make her amiable."These words came as light to the merchant's gloom. Forthwith he calledhis wife into an inner room, and there chastised her within an inch of herlife. And from that hour she gave him no more trouble.