Once upon a time there lived an emperor whose name was Trojan, and hehad ears like a goat. Every morning, when he was shaved, he asked if theman saw anything odd about him, and as each fresh barber always repliedthat the emperor had goat's ears, he was at once ordered to be put todeath.Now after this state of things had lasted a good while, there washardly a barber left in the town that could shave the emperor, and it cameto be the turn of the Master of the Company of Barbers to go up to thepalace. But, unluckily, at the very moment that he should have set out,the master fell suddenly ill, and told one of his apprentices that he mustgo in his stead.When the youth was taken to the emperor's bedroom, he was asked why hehad come and not his master. The young man replied that the master wasill, and there was no one but himself who could be trusted with the honor.The emperor was satisfied with the answer, and sat down, and let a sheetof fine linen be put round him.Directly the young barber began his work, he, like the rest, remarkedthe goat's ears of the emperor, but when he had finished and the emperorasked his usual question as to whether the youth had noticed anything oddabout him, the young man replied calmly, "No, nothing at all."This pleased the emperor so much that he gave him twelve ducats, andsaid, "Henceforth you shall come every day to shave me."So when the apprentice returned home, and the master inquired how hehad got on with the emperor, the young man answered, "Oh, very well, andhe says I am to shave him every day, and he has given me these twelveducats". but he said nothing about the goat's ears of the emperor.From this time the apprentice went regularly up to the palace,receiving each morning twelve ducats in payment. But after a while, hissecret, which he had carefully kept, burnt within him, and he longed totell it to somebody. His master saw there was something on his mind, andasked what it was. The youth replied that he had been tormenting himselffor some months, and should never feel easy until some one shared hissecret."Well, trust me," said the master, "I will keep it to myself. or, ifyou do not like to do that, confess it to your pastor, or go into somefield outside the town and dig a hole, and, after you have dug it, kneeldown and whisper your secret three times into the hole. Then put back theearth and come away."The apprentice thought that this seemed the best plan, and that veryafternoon went to a meadow outside the town, dug a deep hole, then kneltand whispered to it three times over, "The Emperor Trojan has goat'sears." And as he said so a great burden seemed to roll off him, and heshoveled the earth carefully back and ran lightly home.Weeks passed away, and there sprang up in the hole an elder tree whichhad three stems, all as straight as poplars. Some shepherds, tending theirflocks near by, noticed the tree growing there, and one of them cut down astem to make flutes of. but, directly he began to play, the flute would donothing but sing: "The Emperor Trojan has goat's ears." Of course, it wasnot long before the whole town knew of this wonderful flute and what itsaid. and, at last, the news reached the emperor in his palace.He instantly sent for the apprentice and said to him, "What have youbeen saying about me to all my people?"The culprit tried to defend himself by saying that he had never toldanyone what he had noticed. but the emperor, instead of listening, onlydrew his sword from its sheath, which so frightened the poor fellow thathe confessed exactly what he had done, and how he had whispered the truththree times to the earth, and how in that very place an elder tree hadsprung up, and flutes had been cut from it, which would only repeat thewords he had said. Then the emperor commanded his coach to be made ready,and he took the youth with him, and they drove to the spot, for he wishedto see for himself whether the young man's confession was true. but whenthey reached the place only one stem was left. So the emperor desired hisattendants to cut him a flute from the remaining stem, and, when it wasready, he ordered his chamberlain to play on it. But no tune could thechamberlain play, though he was the best flute player about the court  nothing came but the words, "The Emperor Trojan has goat's ears."Then the emperor knew that even the earth gave up its secrets, and hegranted the young man his life, but he never allowed him to be his barberany more.