There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife wasdead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after hisproperty. For a long time all went well. the young man got up very earlyin the morning, and worked hard all day, and at the end of every weekhis father counted up the money they had made, and rubbed his hands withdelight, as he saw how big the pile of gold in the strong iron chest wasbecoming. 'It will soon be full now, and I shall have to buy a largerone,' he said to himself, and so busy was he with the thought of hismoney, that he did not notice how bright his son's face had grown, norhow he sometimes started when he was spoken to, as if his mind was faraway.One day, however, the old man went to the city on business, which he hadnot done for three years at least. It was market day, and he met withmany people he knew, and it was getting quite late when he turned intothe inn yard, and bade an ostler saddle his horse, and bring it rounddirectly. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for agossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards sheasked him how he liked his new daughter in law, and whether he had beensurprised at the marriage.The old man stared as he listened to her. 'Daughter in law? Marriage?'said he. 'I don't know what you are talking about! I've got nodaughter in law, and nobody has been married lately, that I ever heardof.'Now this was exactly what the landlady, who was very curious, wanted tofind out. but she put on a look of great alarm, and exclaimed:'Oh, dear! I hope I have not made mischief. I had no idea or, ofcourse, I would not have spoken but' and here she stopped and fumbledwith her apron, as if she was greatly embarrassed.'As you have said so much you will have to say a little more,' retortedthe old man, a suspicion of what she meant darting across him. and thewoman, nothing loth, answered as before.'Ah, it was not all for buying or selling that your handsome son hasbeen coming to town every week these many months past. And not by theshortest way, either! No, it was over the river he rode, and across thehill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine keeper, whose daughter,they say, is the prettiest girl in the whole country side, though she istoo white for my taste,' and then the landlady paused again, and glancedup at the farmer, to see how he was taking it. She did not learn much.He was looking straight before him, his teeth set. But as she ceased totalk, he said quietly, 'Go on.''There is not much more to tell,' replied the landlady, for she suddenlyremembered that she must prepare supper for the hungry men who alwaysstopped at the inn on market days, before starting for home, 'but onefine morning they both went to the little church on top of the hill,and were married. My cousin is servant to the priest, and she found outabout it and told me. But good day to you, sir. here is your horse, andI must hurry off to the kitchen.'It was lucky that the horse was sure footed and knew the road, for hisbridle hung loose on his neck, and his master took no heed of the wayhe was going. When the farm house was reached, the man led the animal tothe stable, and then went to look for his son.'I know everything you have deceived me. Get out of my sight at once Ihave done with you,' he stammered, choking with passion as he came up tothe young man, who was cutting a stick in front of the door, whistlinggaily the while.'But, father ''You are no son of mine. I have only one now. Begone, or it will be theworse for you,' and as he spoke he lifted up his whip.The young man shrank back. He feared lest his father should fall down ina fit, his face was so red and his eyes seemed bursting from his head.But it was no use staying: perhaps next morning the old man might listento reason, though in his heart the son felt that he would never takeback his words. So he turned slowly away, and walked heavily along apath which ended in a cave on the side of his hill, and there he satthrough the night, thinking of what had happened.Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quiteknow how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father allabout it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seenhis wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her greatbeauty and goodness. But he had put it off from day to day, hopingalways for a better opportunity, and now this was the end!If the son had no sleep that night, no more had the father, and as soonas the sun rose, he sent a messenger into the great city with orders tobring back the younger brother. When he arrived the farmer did not wastewords, but informed him that he was now his only heir, and would inheritall his lands and money, and that he was to come and live at home, andto help manage the property.Though very pleased at the thought of becoming such a rich man for thebrothers had never cared much for each other the younger would ratherhave stayed where he was, for he soon got tired of the country, andlonged for a town life. However, this he kept to himself, and made thebest of things, working hard like his brother before him.In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as theyhad been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he wasbuilding in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take allthe savings to complete them. As to the elder son, he would never evenhear his name mentioned, and died at last without ever seeing his face,leaving to the younger, as he had promised, all his lands, as well ashis money.Meanwhile, the son whom he had disinherited had grown poorer and poorer.He and his wife were always looking out for something to do, and neverspent a penny that they could help, but luck was against them, and atthe time of his father's death they had hardly bread to eat or clothesto cover them. If there had been only himself, he would have managedto get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becomingweaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed themountains to his old home where his brother was living.It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face,and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes ofthe elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am. youcan see that for yourself. I have not come to beg for money, but onlyto ask if you will give me those unfinished houses of yours in the city,and I will make them watertight, so that my wife and children can livein them, and that will save our rent. For as they are, they profit younothing.'And the younger brother listened and pitied him, and gave him the housesthat he asked for, and the elder went away happy.For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brotherbegan to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older,and it was time for him to be married. The wife he chose was verywealthy, but she was also very greedy, and however much she had, shealways wanted more. She was, besides, one of those unfortunate peoplewho invariably fancy that the possessions of other people must be betterthan their own. Many a time her poor husband regretted the day that hehad first seen her, and often her meanness and shabby ways put him toshame. But he had not the courage to rule her, and she only got worseand worse.After she had been married a few months the bride wanted to go into thecity and buy herself some new dresses. She had never been there before,and when she had finished her shopping, she thought she would pay avisit to her unknown sister in law, and rest for a bit. The houseshe was seeking was in a broad street, and ought to have been verymagnificent, but the carved stone portico enclosed a mean little doorof rough wood, while a row of beautiful pillars led to nothing. Thedwelling on each side were in the same unfinished condition, and watertrickled down the walls. Most people would have considered it a wretchedplace, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this ladysaw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid asthey were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to getthem for herself.Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and enteredthe little room where her sister in law sat, making clothes for herchildren. The bride seemed full of interest in the houses, and askeda great many questions about them, so that her new relations liked hermuch better than they expected, and hoped they might be good friends.However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband,and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, asthey would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into apalace as fine as the king's. But her husband only told her that shemight buy houses in some other part of the town, for she could not havethose, as he had long since made a gift of them to his brother, who hadlived there for many years past.At this answer the wife grew very angry. She began to cry, and made sucha noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of thewindows, to see what was the matter. 'It was absurd,' she sobbed out,'quite unjust. Indeed, if you came to think of it, the gift was worthnothing, as when her husband made it he was a bachelor, and since thenhe had been married, and she had never given her consent to any suchthing.' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor manwas nearly worried to death. and at last he did what she wished, andsummoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, hesaid, had only been lent to him. But when the evidence on both sides hadbeen heard, the judge decided in favour of the poor man, which made therich lady more furious than ever, and she determined not to rest untilshe had gained the day. If one judge would not give her the housesanother should, and so time after time the case was tried over again,till at last it came before the highest judge of all, in the city ofEvora. Her husband was heartily tired and ashamed of the whole affair,but his weakness in not putting a stop to it in the beginning had gothim into this difficulty, and now he was forced to go on.On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city,the rich one on horseback, with plenty of food in his knapsack, the poorone on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eaton the way. The road was hilly and neither could go very fast, and whennight fell, they were both glad to see some lights in a window a littledistance in front of them.The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer, whohad planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife'sbirthday, and bade the rich man enter and sit down, while he himselftook the horse to the stable. The poor man asked timidly if he mightspend the night in a corner, adding that he had brought his own supperwith him. Another time permission might have been refused him, for thefarmer was no lover of humble folk, but now he gave the elder brotherleave to come in, pointing out a wooden chair where he could sit.Supper was soon served, and very glad the younger brother was to eat it,for his long ride had made him very hungry. The farmer's wife, however,would touch nothing, and at last declared that the only supper shewanted was one of the onions the poor man was cooking at the fire. Ofcourse he gave it to her, though he would gladly have eaten it himself,as three onions are not much at the end of a long day's walk, and soonafter they all went to sleep, the poor man making himself as comfortableas he could in his corner.A few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of hiswife.'Oh, I feel so ill, I'm sure I'm going to die,' wept she. 'It was thatonion, I know it was. I wish I had never eaten it. It must have beenpoisoned.''If the man has poisoned you he shall pay for it,' said her husband, andseizing a thick stick he ran downstairs and began to beat the poorman, who had been sound asleep, and had nothing to defend himselfwith. Luckily, the noise aroused the younger brother, who jumped up andsnatched the stick from the farmer's hand, saying:'We are both going to Evora to try a law suit. Come too, and accuse himthere if he has attempted to rob you or murder you, but don't kill himnow, or you will get yourself into trouble.''Well, perhaps you are right,' answered the farmer, 'but the sooner thatfellow has his deserts, the better I shall be pleased,' and without morewords he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself andalso the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man, while the poorbrother, fearing more ill treatment, started at once on foot.Now all that night it had rained heavily, and did not seem likely tostop, and in some places the road was so thick with mud that it wasalmost impossible to get across it. In one spot it was so very bad thata mule laden with baggage had got stuck in it, and tug as he might,his master was quite unable to pull him out. The muleteer in despairappealed to the two horseman, who were carefully skirting the swamp atsome distance off, but they paid no heed to his cries, and he began totalk cheerfully to his mule, hoping to keep up his spirits, declaringthat if the poor beast would only have a little patience help was sureto come.And so it did, for very soon the poor brother reached the place,bespattered with mud from head to foot, but ready to do all he couldto help with the mule and his master. First they set about finding somestout logs of wood to lay down on the marsh so that they could reach themule, for by this time his frantic struggles had broken his bridle, andhe was deeper in than ever. Stepping cautiously along the wood, the poorman contrived to lay hold of the animal's tale, and with a desperateeffort the mule managed to regain his footing on dry ground, but at thecost of leaving his tail in the poor man's hand. When he saw this themuleteer's anger knew no bounds, and forgetting that without the helpgiven him he would have lost his mule altogether, he began to abuse thepoor man, declaring that he had ruined his beast, and the law would makehim pay for it. Then, jumping on the back of the mule, which was so gladto be out of the choking mud that he did not seem to mind the loss ofhis tail, the ungrateful wretch rode on, and that evening reached theinn at Evora, where the rich man and the farmer had already arrived forthe night.Meanwhile the poor brother walked wearily along, wondering what otherdreadful adventures were in store for him.'I shall certainly be condemned for one or other of them,' thought hesadly. 'and after all, if I have to die, I would rather choose my owndeath than leave it to my enemies,' and as soon as he entered Evora helooked about for a place suitable for carrying out the plan he had made.At length he found what he sought, but as it was too late and too darkfor him to make sure of success, he curled himself up under a doorway,and slept till morning.Although it was winter, the sun rose in a clear sky, and its rays feltalmost warm when the poor man got up and shook himself. He intended itto be the day of his death, but in spite of that, and of the factthat he was leaving his wife and children behind him, he felt almostcheerful. He had struggled so long, and was so very, very tired. but hewould not have minded that if he could have proved his innocence, andtriumphed over his enemies. However, they had all been too clever forhim, and he had no strength to fight any more. So he mounted the stonesteps that led to the battlements of the city, and stopped for a momentto gaze about him.It happened that an old sick man who lived near by had begged to becarried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall so that the beams ofthe rising sun might fall upon him, and he would be able to talk withhis friends as they passed by to their work. Little did he guess thaton top of the battlements, exactly over his head, stood a man who wastaking his last look at the same sun, before going to his death thatawaited him. But so it was. and as the steeple opposite was touched bythe golden light, the poor man shut his eyes and sprang forward. Thewall was high, and he flew rapidly through the air, but it was not theground he touched, only the body of the sick man, who rolled over anddied without a groan. As for the other, he was quite unhurt, and wasslowly rising to his feet when his arms were suddenly seized and held.'You have killed our father, do you see? do you see?' cried two youngmen, 'and you will come with us this instant before the judge, andanswer for it.''Your father? but I don't know him. What do you mean?' asked the poorman, who was quite bewildered with his sudden rush through the air, andcould not think why he should be accused of this fresh crime. But he gotno reply, and was only hurried through the streets to the court house,where his brother, the muleteer, and the farmer had just arrived, all asangry as ever, all talking at once, till the judge entered and orderedthem to be silent.'I will hear you one by one,' he said, and motioned the younger brotherto begin.He did not take long to state his case. The unfinished houses were his,left him with the rest of the property by his father, and his brotherrefused to give them up. In answer, the poor man told, in a few words,how he had begged the houses from his brother, and produced the deed ofgift which made him their owner.The judge listened quietly and asked a few questions. then he gave hisverdict.'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they weregiven, and to whom they belong. And as you,' he added, turning to theyounger brother, 'brought this accusation knowing full well it waswicked and unjust, I order you, besides losing the houses, to pay athousand pounds damages to your brother.'The rich man heard the judge with rage in his heart, the poor man withsurprise and gratitude. But he was not safe yet, for now it was the turnof the farmer. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story,and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, andreceived for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be donethat he had not waited to see. Then the poor man told his tale, and oncemore judgment was given in his favour, while twelve hundred poundswas ordered to be paid him. As for the muleteer, he was informed veryplainly that he had proved himself mean and ungrateful for the help thathad been given him, and as a punishment he must pay to the poor man afine of fifty pounds, and hand him over the mule till his tail had grownagain.Lastly, there came the two sons of the sick man.'This is the wretch who killed our father,' they said, 'and we demandthat he should die also.''How did you kill him?' asked the judge, turning to the accused, and thepoor man told how he had leaped from the wall, not knowing that anyonewas beneath.'Well, this is my judgment,' replied the judge, when they had allspoken: 'Let the accused sit under the wall, and let the sons of thedead man jump from the top and fall on him and kill him, and if theywill not to this, then they are condemned to pay eight hundred poundsfor their false accusation.'The young men looked at each other, and slowly shook their heads.'We will pay the fine,' said they, and the judge nodded.So the poor man rode the mule home, and brought back to his familyenough money to keep them in comfort to the end of their days.Adapted from the Portuguese.