A certain man died and left three sons. One was altogether a fool,another was fairly intelligent, and the third was rather clever. Thisbeing so, it was of course difficult for them to live together. Individing the inheritance among them, the fool was cheated, and in regardto the cattle he was thus duped: There were three entrances to the pen,two open and one very narrow. The two clever brothers proposed to drivethe beasts out of all three at once. those that issued from the small gapwere to belong to the fool. In this way the latter's share was only oneyoung bull out of the whole flock. But to his feeble mind the divisionseemed fair enough, so he contentedly drove his bull out into the forest,and tied it with a stout rope to a young tree, whilst he himself wanderedaimlessly about.Three days later, the fool went to see his beast. It had eaten anddrunk nothing, but had pulled the tree up by the roots, and laid bare ajar full of old gold coins. The fool was delighted, and played with themoney for a time. Then he resolved to take the jar and present it to theking. As he passed along the road, every wayfarer looked into the pot,took out the gold in handfuls, and so that he should not notice theirthefts, filled it up with stones and blocks of wood. On reaching thepalace, the fool asked for an audience of the king, and it was granted. Heemptied out the contents of the jar at the feet of the king. When thecourtiers saw the wrath of the king, they took the fool away and beat him.When he had recovered himself he asked why he had been thrashed. One ofthe bystanders, for fun, cried to him, "You have been beaten because youlabor in vain."The fool went his way, muttering the words, "You labor in vain." As hepassed a peasant who was reaping, he repeated his phrase again and again,until the peasant grew angry, and thrashed him. The fool asked why he hadbeen beaten, and what he ought to have said."You ought to have said, 'God give you a good harvest!'"The fool went on, saying "God give you a good harvest!" and met afuneral. Again he was beaten, and again he asked what he should say.They replied that he should have said, "Heaven rest your soul!" He thencame to a wedding, and saluted the newly married couple with this funerealphrase.Again he was beaten, and then told that he should say, "Be fruitful andmultiply!"His next visit was to a monastery, and he accosted every monk with hisnew salutation. They too gave him a thrashing, with such vigor that thefool determined to have his revenge by stealing of the bells from theirbelfry. So he hid himself until the monks had gone to rest, and thencarried off a bell of moderate size.He went into the forest, climbed a tree, and hung the bell on thebranches, ringing it from time to time, partly to amuse himself and partlyto frighten away wild beasts. In the forest there was a gang of robbers,who were assembled to share their booty, and had just ended a merrybanquet. Suddenly they heard the sound of the bell, and were much afraid.They took counsel as to what was to be done, and most of them were forflight, but the oldest of the band advised them to send a scout to seewhat was wrong. The bravest among them was sent to get information, andthe rest remained as quiet as possible.The brigand went on tiptoe through the bushes to the tree where thefool was, and respectfully asked, "Who are you? If you are an angel sentby God to punish our wickedness, pray spare us and we shall repent. If youare a devil from hell, come and share with us."The fool was not so stupid that he did not see he had to deal withrobbers, so he took out a knife, tolled the bell, and then said with agrave air, "If you wish to know who I am, climb the tree and show me yourtongue, so that I may mark on it who I am and what I ask of you."The robber obediently climbed the tree, and put out his tongue as faras he could. The fool cut off his tongue, and kicked him to the ground.The robber, mad with pain, and frightened by his sudden fall, ran offhowling. His comrades had come out to meet him, and when they saw theplight he was in, they ran off in terror, leaving their wealth. Nextmorning the fool found the booty, and without saying anything to anybody,took it home and became much richer than his brothers. The fool builtthree palaces: one for himself, one for me, and one for you. There ismerrymaking in the fool's palace. Come and be one of the guests!