In the centre of the great hall in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk, kingArthur sat on a seat of green rushes, over which was thrown a coveringof flame coloured silk, and a cushion of red satin lay under his elbow.With him were his knights Owen and Kynon and Kai, while at the farend, close to the window, were Guenevere the queen and her maidensembroidering white garments with strange devices of gold.'I am weary,' said Arthur, 'and till my food is prepared I would fainsleep. You yourselves can tell each other tales, and Kai will fetch youfrom the kitchen a flagon of mean and some meat.'And when they had eaten and drunk, Kynon, the oldest among them, beganhis story.'I was the only son of my father and mother, and much store they set byme, but I was not content to stay with them at home, for I thought nodeed in all the world was too mighty for me. None could hold me back,and after I had won many adventures in my own land, I bade farewellto my parents and set out to see the world. Over mountains, throughdeserts, across rivers I went, till I reached a fair valley full oftrees, with a path running by the side of a stream. I walked along thatpath all the day, and in the evening I came to a castle in front ofwhich stood two youths clothed in yellow, each grasping an ivory bow,with arrows made of the bones of the whale, and winged with peacock'sfeathers. By their sides hung golden daggers with hilts of the bones ofthe whale.'Near these young men was a man richly dressed, who turned and went withme towards the castle, where all the dwellers were gathered in the hall.In one window I beheld four and twenty damsels, and the least fair ofthem was fairer than Guenevere at her fairest. Some took my horse, andothers unbuckled my armour, and washed it, with my sword and spear, tillit all shone like silver. Then I washed myself and put on a vest anddoublet which they brought me, and I and the man that entered with mesat down before a table of silver, and a goodlier feast I never had.'All this time neither the man nor the damsels had spoken one word, butwhen our dinner was half over, and my hunger was stilled, the man beganto ask who I was. Then I told him my name and my father's name, and whyI came there, for indeed I had grown weary of gaining the mastery overall men at home, and sought if perchance there was one who could gainthe mastery over me. And at this the man smiled and answered:'"If I did not fear to distress thee too much, I would show thee whatthou seekest." His words made me sorrowful and fearful of myself, whichthe man perceived, and added, "If thou meanest truly what thou sayest,and desirest earnestly to prove thy valour, and not to boast vainly thatnone can overcome thee, I have somewhat to show thee. But to night thoumust sleep in the this castle, and in the morning see that thou riseearly and follow the road upwards through the valley, until thoureachest a wood. In the wood is a path branching to the right. go alongthis path until thou comest to a space of grass with a mound in themiddle of it. On the top of the mound stands a black man, larger thanany two white men. his eye is in the centre of his forehead and he hasonly one foot. He carries a club of iron, and two white men could hardlylift it. Around him graze a thousand beasts, all of different kinds, forhe is the guardian of that wood, and it is he who will tell thee whichway to go in order to find the adventure thou art in quest of."'So spake the man, and long did that night seem to me, and before dawnI rose and put on my armour, and mounted my horse and rode on till Ireached the grassy space of which he had told me. There was the blackman on top of the mound, as he had said, and in truth he was mightierin all ways than I had thought him to be. As for the club, Kai, it wouldhave been a burden for four of our warriors. He waited for me to speak,and I asked him what power he held over the beasts that thronged soclose about him.'"I will show thee, little man," he answered, and with his club hestruck a stag on the head till he brayed loudly. And at his braying theanimals came running, numerous as the stars in the sky, so that scarcewas I able to stand among them. Serpents were there also, and dragons,and beasts of strange shapes, with horns in places where never saw Ihorns before. And the black man only looked at them and bade them goand feed. And they bowed themselves before him, as vassals before theirlord.'"Now, little man, I have answered thy question and showed thee mypower," said he. "Is there anything else thou wouldest know?" Then Iinquired of him my way, but he grew angry, and, as I perceived, wouldfain have hindered me. but at the last, after I had told him who I was,his anger passed from him.'"Take that path," said he, "that leads to the head of this grassyglade, and go up the wood till thou reachest the top. There thou wiltfind an open space, and in the midst of it a tall tree. Under the treeis a fountain, and by the fountain a marble slab, and on the slab a bowlof silver, with a silver chain. Dip the bowl in the fountain, and throwthe water on the slab, and thou wilt hear a might peal of thunder, tillheaven and earth seem trembling with the noise. After the thunder willcome hail, so fierce that scarcely canst thou endure it and live, forthe hailstones are both large and thick. Then the sun will shine again,but every leaf of the tree will by lying on the ground. Next a flightof birds will come and alight on the tree, and never didst thou hear astrain so sweet as that which they will sing. And at the moment in whichtheir song sounds sweetest thou wilt hear a murmuring and complainingcoming towards thee along the valley, and thou wilt see a knight inblack velvet bestriding a black horse, bearing a lance with a blackpennon, and he will spur his steed so as to fight thee. If thou turnestto flee, he will overtake thee. And if thou abidest were thou art, hewill unhorse thee. And if thou dost not find trouble in that adventure,thou needest not to seek it during the rest of thy life."'So I bade the black man farewell, and took my way to the top of thewood, and there I found everything just as I had been told. I went up tothe tree beneath which stood the fountain, and filling the silver bowlwith water, emptied it on the marble slab. Thereupon the thunder came,louder by far than I had expected to hear it, and after the thunder camethe shower, but heavier by far than I had expected to feel it, for, of atruth I tell thee, Kai, not one of those hailstones would be stopped byskin or by flesh till it had reached the bone. I turned my horse's flanktowards the shower, and, bending over his neck, held my shield so thatit might cover his head and my own. When the hail had passed, I lookedon the tree and not a single leaf was left on it, and the sky was blueand the sun shining, while on the branches were perched birds of verykind, who sang a song sweeter than any that has come to my ears, eitherbefore or since.'Thus, Kai, I stood listening to the birds, when lo, a murmuring voiceapproached me, saying:'"O knight, what has brought thee hither? What evil have I done to thee,that thou shouldest do so much to me, for in all my lands neither mannor beast that met that shower has escaped alive." Then from the valleyappeared the knight on the black horse, grasping the lance with theblack pennon. Straightway we charged each other, and though I foughtmy best, he soon overcame me, and I was thrown to the ground, while theknight seized the bridle of my horse, and rode away with it, leaving mewhere I was, without even despoiling me of my armour.'Sadly did I go down the hill again, and when I reached the glade wherethe black man was, I confess to thee, Kai, it was a marvel that I didnot melt into a liquid pool, so great was my shame. That night I sleptat the castle where I had been before, and I was bathed and feasted, andnone asked me how I had fared. The next morning when I arose I found abay horse saddled for me, and, girdling on my armour, I returned to myown court. The horse is still in the stable, and I would not part withit for any in Britain.'But of a truth, Kai, no man ever confessed an adventure so much to hisown dishonour, and strange indeed it seems that none other man have Iever met that knew of the black man, and the knight and the shower.''Would it not be well,' said Owen, 'to go and discover the place?''By the hand of my friend,' answered Kai, 'often dost thou utter thatwith thy tongue which thou wouldest not make good with thy deeds.''In truth,' said Guenevere the queen, who had listened to the tale,'thou wert better hanged, Kai, than use such speech towards a man likeOwen.''I meant nothing, lady,' replied Kai. 'thy praise of Owen is not greaterthan mine.' And as he spoke Arthur awoke, and asked if he had not sleptfor a little.'Yes, lord,' answered Owen, 'certainly thou hast slept.''Is it time for us to go to meat?''It is, lord,' answered Owen.Then the horn for washing themselves was sounded, and after that theking and his household sat down to eat. And when they had finished, Owenleft them, and made ready his horse and his arms.With the first rays of the sun he set forth, and travelled throughdeserts and over mountains and across rivers, and all befell him whichhad befallen Kynon, till he stood under the leafless tree listeningto the song of the birds. Then he heard the voice, and turning to lookfound the knight galloping to meet him. Fiercely they fought till theirlances were broken, and then they drew their swords, and a blow fromOwen cut through the knight's helmet, and pierced his skull.Feeling himself wounded unto death the knight fled, and Owen pursued himtill they came to a splendid castle. Here the knight dashed across thebridge that spanned the moat, and entered the gate, but as soon as hewas safe inside, the drawbridge was pulled up and caught Owen's horse inthe middle, so that half of him was inside and half out, and Owen couldnot dismount and knew not what to do.While he was in this sore plight a little door in the castle gateopened, and he could see a street facing him, with tall houses. Then amaiden with curling hair of gold looked through the little door and badeOwen open the gate.'By my troth!' cried Owen, 'I can no more open it from here than thouart able to set me free.''Well,' said she, 'I will do my best to release thee if thou wilt doas I tell thee. Take this ring and put it on with the stone inside thyhand, and close thy fingers tight, for as long as thou dost conceal it,it will conceal thee. When the men inside have held counsel together,they will come to fetch thee to thy death, and they will be much grievednot to find thee. I will stand on the horse block yonder and thou canstsee me though I cannot see thee. Therefore draw near and place thy handon my shoulder and follow me wheresoever I go.'Upon that she went away from Owen, and when the men came out from thecastle to seek him and did not find him they were sorely grieved, andthey returned to the castle.Then Owen went to the maiden and placed his hand on her shoulder, andshe guided him to a large room, painted all over with rich colours, andadorned with images of gold. Here she gave him meat and drink, and waterto wash with and garments to wear, and he lay down upon a soft bed, withscarlet and fur to cover him, and slept gladly.In the middle of the night he woke hearing a great outcry, and he jumpedup and clothed himself and went into the hall, where the maiden wasstanding.'What is it?' he asked, and she answered that the knight who owned thecastle was dead, and they were bearing his body to the church. Never hadOwen beheld such vast crowds, and following the dead knight was the mostbeautiful lady in the world, whose cry was louder than the shout of themen, or the braying of the trumpets. And Owen looked on her and lovedher.'Who is she?' he asked the damsel. 'That is my mistress, the countess ofthe fountain, and the wife of him whom thou didst slay yesterday.''Verily,' said Owen, 'she is the woman that I love best.''She shall also love thee not a little,' said the maiden.Then she left Owen, and after a while went into the chamber of hermistress, and spoke to her, but the countess answered her nothing.'What aileth thee, mistress?' inquired the maiden.'Why hast thou kept far from me in my grief, Luned?' answered thecountess, and in her turn the damsel asked:'Is it well for thee to mourn so bitterly for the dead, or for anythingthat is gone from thee?''There is no man in the world equal to him,' replied the countess,her cheeks growing red with anger. 'I would fain banish thee for suchwords.''Be not angry, lady,' said Luned, 'but listen to my counsel. Thouknowest well that alone thou canst not preserve thy lands, thereforeseek some one to help thee.''And how can I do that?' asked the countess.'I will tell thee,' answered Luned. 'Unless thou canst defend thefountain all will be lost, and none can defend the fountain except aknight of Arthur's court. There will I go to seek him, and woe betide meif I return without a warrior that can guard the fountain, as well as hewho kept it before.''Go then,' said the countess, 'and make proof of that which thou hastpromised.'So Luned set out, riding on a white palfrey, on pretence of journeyingto King Arthur's court, but instead of doing that she hid herself for asmany days as it would have taken her to go and come, and then she lefther hiding place, and went into the countess.'What news from the court?' asked her mistress, when she had given Luneda warm greeting.'The best of news,' answered the maiden, 'for I have gained the objectof my mission. When wilt thou that I present to thee the knight who hasreturned with me?''To morrow at midday,' said the countess, 'and I will cause all thepeople in the town to come together.'Therefore the next day at noon Owen put on his coat of mail, and over ithe wore a splendid mantle, while on his feet were leather shoes fastenedwith clasps of gold. And he followed Luned to the chamber of hermistress.Right glad was the countess to see them, but she looked closely at Owenand said:'Luned, this knight has scarcely the air of a traveller.''What harm is there in that, lady?' answered Luned.'I am persuaded,' said the countess, 'that this man and no other chasedthe soul from the body of my lord.''Had he not been stronger than thy lord,' replied the damsel, 'he couldnot have taken his life, and for that, and for all things that are past,there is no remedy.''Leave me, both of you,' said the countess, 'and I will take counsel.'Then they went out.The next morning the countess summoned her subjects to meet in thecourtyard of the castle, and told them that now that her husband wasdead there was none to defend her lands.'So choose you which it shall be,' she said. 'Either let one of you takeme for a wife, or give me your consent to take a new lord for myself,that my lands be not without a master.'At her words the chief men of the city withdrew into one corner and tookcounsel together, and after a while the leader came forward and saidthat they had decided that it was best, for the peace and safety ofall, that she should choose a husband for herself. Thereupon Owen wassummoned to her presence, and he accepted with joy the hand that sheoffered him, and they were married forthwith, and the men of the earldomdid him homage.From that day Owen defended the fountain as the earl before him haddone, and every knight that came by was overthrown by him, and hisransom divided among his barons. In this way three years passed, and noman in the world was more beloved than Owen.Now at the end of the three years it happened that Gwalchmai the knightwas with Arthur, and he perceived the king to be very sad.'My lord, has anything befallen thee?' he asked.'Oh, Gwalchmai, I am grieved concerning Owen, whom I have lost thesethree years, and if a fourth year passes without him I can live nolonger. And sure am I that the tale told by Kynon the son of Clydnocaused me to lose him. I will go myself with the men of my household toavenge him if he is dead, to free him if he is in prison, to bring himback if he is alive.'Then Arthur and three thousand men of his household set out in quest ofOwen, and took Kynon for their guide. When Arthur reached the castle,the youths were shooting in the same place, and the same yellow man wasstanding by, and as soon as he beheld Arthur he greeted him and invitedhim in, and they entered together. So vast was the castle that theking's three thousand men were of no more account than if they had beentwenty.At sunrise Arthur departed thence, with Kynon for his guide, and reachedthe black man first, and afterwards the top of the wooded hill, with thefountain and the bowl and the tree.'My lord,' said Kai, 'let me throw the water on the slab, and receivethe first adventure that may befall.''Thou mayest do so,' answered Arthur, and Kai threw the water.Immediately all happened as before. the thunder and the shower ofhail which killed many of Arthur's men. the song of the birds and theappearance of the black knight. And Kai met him and fought him, and wasoverthrown by him. Then the knight rode away, and Arthur and his menencamped where they stood.In the morning Kai again asked leave to meet the knight and to try toovercome him, which Arthur granted. But once more he was unhorsed, andthe black knight's lance broke his helmet and pierced the skin even tothe bone, and humbled in spirit he returned to the camp.After this every one of the knights gave battle, but none came outvictor, and at length there only remained Arthur himself and Gwalchmai.'Oh, let me fight him, my lord,' cried Gwalchmai, as he saw Arthurtaking up his arms.'Well, fight then,' answered Arthur, and Gwalchmai threw a robe overhimself and his horse, so that none knew him. All that day they fought,and neither was able to throw the other, and so it was on the next day.On the third day the combat was so fierce that they fell both to theground at once, and fought on their feet, and at last the black knightgave his foe such a blow on his head that his helmet fell from his face.'I did not know it was thee, Gwalchmai,' said the black knight. 'Take mysword and my arms.''No,' answered Gwalchmai, 'it is thou, Owen, who art the victor, takethou my sword'. but Owen would not.'Give me your swords,' said Arthur from behind them, 'for neither ofyou has vanquished the other,' and Owen turned and put his arms roundArthur's neck.The next day Arthur would have given orders to his men to make ready togo back whence they came, but Owen stopped him.'My lord,' he said, 'during the three years that I have been absent fromthee I have been preparing a banquet for thee, knowing full well thatthou wouldst come to seek me. Tarry with me, therefore, for a while,thou and thy men.'So they rode to the castle of the countess of the fountain, and spentthree months in resting and feasting. And when it was time for them todepart Arthur besought the countess that she would allow Owen to gowith him to Britain for the space of three months. With a sore heart shegranted permission, and so content was Owen to be once more with his oldcompanions that three years instead of three months passed away like adream.One day Owen sat at meat in the castle of Caerleon upon Usk, when adamsel on a bay horse entered the hall, and riding straight up to theplace where Owen sat she stooped and drew the ring from off his hand.'Thus shall be treated the traitor and the faithless,' said she, andturning her horse's head she rode out of the hall.At her words Owen remembered all that he had forgotten, and sorrowfuland ashamed he went to his own chamber and made ready to depart. At thedawn he set out, but he did not go back to the castle, for his heart washeavy, but he wandered far into wild places till his body was weak andthin, and his hair was long. The wild beasts were his friends, and heslept by their side, but in the end he longed to see the face of a managain, and he came down into a valley and fell asleep by a lake in thelands of a widowed countess.Now it was the time when the countess took her walk, attended by hermaidens, and when they saw a man lying by the lake they shrank back interror, for he lay so still that they thought he was dead. But when theyhad overcome their fright, they drew near him, and touched him, and sawthat there was life in him. Then the countess hastened to the castle,and brought from it a flask full of precious ointment and gave it to oneof her maidens.'Take that horse which is grazing yonder,' she said, 'and a suit ofmen's garments, and place them near the man, and pour some of thisointment near his heart. If there is any life in him that will bring itback. But if he moves, hide thyself in the bushes near by, and see whathe does.'The damsel took the flask and did her mistress' bidding. Soon the manbegan to move his arms, and then rose slowly to his feet. Creepingforward step by step he took the garments from off the saddle and putthem on him, and painfully he mounted the horse. When he was seated thedamsel came forth and greeted him, and glad was he when he saw her andinquired what castle that was before him.'It belongs to a widowed countess,' answered the maiden. 'Her husbandleft her two earldoms, but it is all that remains of her broad lands,for they have been torn from her by a young earl, because she would notmarry him.''That is a pity,' replied Owen, but he said no more, for he was too weakto talk much. Then the maiden guided him to the castle, and kindled afire, and brought him food. And there he stayed and was tended for threemonths, till he was handsomer than ever he was.At noon one day Owen heard a sound of arms outside the castle, and heasked of the maiden what it was.'It is the earl of whom I spoke to thee,' she answered, 'who has comewith a great host to carry off my mistress.''Beg of her to lend me a horse and armour,' said Owen, and the maidendid so, but the countess laughed somewhat bitterly as she answered:'Nay, but I will give them to him, and such a horse and armour andweapons as he has never had yet, though I know not what use they will beto him. Yet mayhap it will save them from falling into the hands of myenemies.'The horse was brought out and Owen rode forth with two pages behind him,and they saw the great host encamped before them.'Where is the earl?' said he, and the pages answered:'In yonder troop where are four yellow standards.''Await me,' said Owen, 'at the gate of the castle, and he cried achallenge to the earl, who came to meet him. Hard did they fight, butOwen overthrew his enemy and drove him in front to the castle gate andinto the hall.'Behold the reward of thy blessed balsam,' said he, as he bade the earlkneel down before her, and made him swear that he would restore all thathe had taken from her.After that he departed, and went into the deserts, and as he was passingthrough a wood he heard a loud yelling. Pushing aside the bushes hebeheld a lion standing on a great mound, and by it a rock. Near the rockwas a lion seeking to reach the mound, and each time he moved out darteda serpent from the rock to prevent him. Then Owen unsheathed hissword, and cut off the serpent's head and went on his way, and the lionfollowed and played about him, as if he had been a greyhound. And muchmore useful was he than a greyhound, for in the evening he brought largelogs in his mouth to kindle a fire, and killed a fat buck for dinner.Owen made his fire and skinned the buck, and put some of it to roast,and gave the rest to the lion for supper. While he was waiting for themeat to cook he heard a sound of deep sighing close to him, and he said:'Who are thou?''I am Luned,' replied a voice from a cave so hidden by bushes and greenhanging plants that Owen had not seen it.'And what dost thou here?' cried he.'I am held captive in this cave on account of the knight who marriedthe countess and left her, for the pages spoke ill of him, and because Itold them that no man living was his equal they dragged me here and saidI should die unless he should come to deliver me by a certain day, andthat is no further than the day after to morrow. His name is Owen theson of Urien, but I have none to send to tell him of my danger, or of asurety he would deliver me.'Owen held his peace, but gave the maiden some of the meat, and bade herbe of good cheer. Then, followed by the lion, he set out for a greatcastle on the other side of the plain, and men came and took his horseand placed it in a manger, and the lion went after and lay down on thestraw. Hospitable and kind were all within the castle, but so full ofsorrow that it might have been thought death was upon them. At length,when they had eaten and drunk, Owen prayed the earl to tell him thereason of their grief.'Yesterday,' answered the earl, 'my two sons were seized, while thy werehunting, by a monster who dwells on those mountains yonder, and he vowsthat he will not let them go unless I give him my daughter to wife.''That shall never be,' said Owen. 'but what form hath this monster?''In shape he is a man, but in stature he is a giant,' replied the earl,'and it were better by far that he should slay my sons than that Ishould give up my daughter.'Early next morning the dwellers in the castle were awakened by a greatclamour, and they found that the giant had arrived with the two youngmen. Swiftly Owen put on his armour and went forth to meet the giant,and the lion followed at his heels. And when the great beast beheld thehard blows which the giant dealt his master he flew at his throat, andmuch trouble had the monster in beating him off.'Truly,' said the giant, 'I should find no difficulty in fighting thee,if it were not for that lion.' When he heard that Owen felt shame thathe could not overcome the giant with his own sword, so he took the lionand shut him up in one of the towers of the castle, and returned to thefight. But from the sound of the blows the lion knew that the combatwas going ill for Owen, so he climbed up till he reached the top ofthe tower, where there was a door on to the roof, and from the tower hesprang on to the walls, and from the walls to the ground. Then with aloud roar he leaped upon the giant, who fell dead under the blow of hispaw.Now the gloom of the castle was turned into rejoicing, and the earlbegged Owen to stay with him till he could make him a feast, but theknight said he had other work to do, and rode back to the place where hehad left Luned, and the lion followed at his heels. When he came therehe saw a great fire kindled, and two youths leading out the maiden tocast her upon the pile.'Stop!' he cried, dashing up to them. 'What charge have you againsther?''She boasted that no man in the world was equal to Owen,' said they,'and we shut her in a cave, and agreed that none should deliver her butOwen himself, and that if he did not come by a certain day she shoulddie. And now the time has past and there is no sign of him.''In truth he is a good knight, and had he but known that the maid was inperil he would have come to save her,' said Owen. 'but accept me in hisstead, I entreat you.''We will,' replied they, and the fight began.The youths fought well and pressed hard on Owen, and when the lion sawthat he came to help his master. But the youths made a sign for thefight to stop, and said:'Chieftain, it was agreed we should give battle to thee alone, and it isharder for us to contend with yonder beast than with thee.'Then Owen shut up the lion in the cave where the maiden had been inprison, and blocked up the front with stones. But the fight with thegiant had sorely tried him, and the youths fought well, and pressed himharder than before. And when the lion saw that he gave a loud roar, andburst through the stones, and sprang upon the youths and slew them. Andso Luned was delivered at the last.Then the maiden rode back with Owen to the lands of the lady of thefountain. And he took the lady with him to Arthur's court, where theylived happily till they died.From the 'Mabinogion.'