There was once a tramp, who went plodding his way through a forest. Thedistance between the houses was so great that he had little hope offinding a shelter before the night set in. But all of a sudden he saw somelights between the trees. He then discovered a cottage, where there was afire burning on the hearth. "How nice it would be to roast one's selfbefore that fire, and to get a bite of something," he thought. and so hedragged himself towards the cottage.Just then an old woman came towards him."Good evening, and well met!" said the tramp."Good evening," said the woman. "Where do you come from?""South of the sun, and east of the moon," said the tramp, "and now I amon the way home again, for I have been all over the world with theexception of this parish," he said."You must be a great traveler, then," said the woman. "What may be yourbusiness here?""Oh, I want a shelter for the night," he said."I thought as much," said the woman. "but you may as well get away fromhere at once, for my husband is not at home, and my place is not an inn,"she said."My good woman," said the tramp, "you must not be so cross andhardhearted, for we are both human beings, and should help one another, itis written.""Help one another?" said the woman. "Help? Did you ever hear such athing? Who'll help me, do you think? I haven't got a morsel in the house!No, you'll have to look for quarters elsewhere," she said.But the tramp was like the rest of his kind. He did not considerhimself beaten at the first rebuff. Although the old woman grumbled andcomplained as much as she could, he was just as persistent as ever, andwent on begging and praying like a starved dog, until at last she gave in,and he got permission to lie on the floor for the night.That was very kind, he thought, and he thanked her for it."Better on the floor without sleep, than suffer cold in the forestdeep," he said, for he was a merry fellow, this tramp, and was alwaysready with a rhyme.When he came into the room he could see that the woman was not so badlyoff as she had pretended. But she was a greedy and stingy woman of theworst sort, and was always complaining and grumbling.He now made himself very agreeable, of course, and asked her in hismost insinuating manner for something to eat."Where am I to get it from?" said the woman. "I haven't tasted a morselmyself the whole day."But the tramp was a cunning fellow, he was. "Poor old granny, you mustbe starving," he said, "Well, well, I suppose I shall have to ask you tohave something with me, then.""Have something with you!" said the woman. "You don't look as if youcould ask anyone to have anything! What have you got to offer one, Ishould like to know?""He who far and wide does roam sees many things not known at home. andhe who many things has seen has wits about him and senses keen," said thetramp. "Better dead than lose one's head! Lend me a pot, granny!"The old woman now became very inquisitive, as you may guess, and so shelet him have a pot. He filled it with water and put it on the fire, andthen he blew with all his might till the fire was burning fiercely allround it Then he took a four inch nail from his pocket, turned it threetimes in his hand and put it into the pot.The woman stared with all her might. "What's this going to be?" sheasked."Nail broth," said the tramp.The old woman had seen and heard a good deal in her time, but thatanybody could have made broth with a nail, well, she had never heard thelike before."That's something for poor people to know," she said, "and I shouldlike to learn how to make it.""That which is not worth having, will always go a begging," said thetramp.But if she wanted to learn how to make it she had only to watch him, hesaid, and went on stirring the broth. The old woman squatted on theground, her hands clasping her knees, and her eyes following his hand ashe stirred the broth."This generally makes good broth," he said, "but this time it will verylikely be rather thin, for I have been making broth the whole week withthe same nail. If one only had a handful of sifted oatmeal to put in, thatwould make it all right," he said. "But what one has to go without, it'sno use thinking more about," and so he stirred the broth again."Well, I think I have a scrap of flour somewhere," said the old woman,and went out to fetch some, and it was both good and fine. The tramp beganputting the flour into the broth, and went on stirring, while the womansat staring now at him and then at the pot until her eyes nearly bursttheir sockets."This broth would be good enough for company," he said, putting in onehandful of flour after another. "If I had only a bit of salted beef and afew potatoes to put in, it would be fit for gentlefolks, howeverparticular they might be," he said. "But what one has to go without, it'sno use thinking more about."When the old woman really began to think it over, she thought she hadsome potatoes, and perhaps a bit of beef as well, and these she gave thetramp, who went on stirring, while she sat and stared as hard as ever."This will be grand enough for the best in the land," he said."Well, I never!" said the woman, "and just fancy   all with a nail!"He was really a wonderful man, that tramp! He could do more than drink asup and turn the tankard up, he could."If one had only a little barley and a drop of milk, we could ask theking himself to have some of it," he said, "for this is what he has everyblessed evening   that I know, for I have been in service under theking's cook" he said."Dear me! Ask the king to have some! Well, I never!" exclaimed thewoman, slapping her knees. She was quite awestruck at the tramp and hisgrand connections."But what one has to go without, it's no use thinking more about."And then she remembered she had a little barley. and as for milk, well,she wasn't quite out of that, she said, for her best cow had just calved.And then she went to fetch both the one and the other.The tramp went on stirring, and the woman sat staring, one moment athim and the next at the pot.Then all at once the tramp took out the nail. "Now it's ready, and nowwe'll have a real good feast," he said. "But to this kind of soup the kingand the queen always take a dram or two, and one sandwich at least. Andthen they always have a cloth on the table when they eat," he said. "Butwhat one has to go without, it's no use thinking more about."But by this time the old woman herself had begun to feel quite grandand fine, I can tell you. And if that was all that was wanted to make itjust as the king had it, she thought it would be nice to have it just thesame way for once, and play at being king and queen with the tramp. Shewent straight to a cupboard and brought out the brandy bottle, dramglasses, butter and cheese, smoked beef and veal, until at last the tablelooked as if it were decked out for company.Never in her life had the old woman had such a grand feast, and neverhad she tasted such broth, and just fancy, made only with a nail! She wasin such a good and merry humor at having learnt such an economical way ofmaking broth that she did not know how to make enough of the tramp who hadtaught her such a useful thing. So they ate and drank, and drank and ate,until they become both tired and sleepy.The tramp was now going to lie down on the floor. But that would neverdo, thought the old woman. No, that was impossible. "Such a grand personmust have a bed to lie in," she said.He did not need much pressing. "It's just like the sweetChristmastime," he said, "and a nicer woman I never came across. Ah, well!Happy are they who meet with such good people," said he, and he lay downon the bed and went asleep.And next morning when he woke, the first thing he got was coffee and adram. When he was going, the old woman gave him a bright dollar piece."And thanks, many thanks, for what you have taught me," she said. "Now Ishall live in comfort, since I have learnt how to make broth with anail.""Well it isn't very difficult, if one only has something good to add toit," said the tramp as he went on his way.The woman stood at the door staring after him. "Such people don't growon every bush," she said.