Once there was a presidente (headman of a town) who was very unjust tohis people, and one day he became so angry that he wished he had horns sothat he might frighten them. No sooner had he made this rash wish, thanhorns began to grow on his head.He sent for a barber who came to his house to cut his hair, and as heworked the presidente asked, "What do you see on my head?""I see nothing," answered the barber. for although he could see thehorns plainly, he was afraid to say so. Soon, however, the presidente putup his hands and felt the horns, and then when he inquired again thebarber told him that he had two horns."If you tell anyone what you have seen, you shall be hanged," said thepresidente as the barber started away, and he was greatly frightened.When he reached home, the barber did not intend to tell anyone, for hewas afraid. but as he thought of his secret more and more, the desire totell someone became so strong that he knew he could not keep it. Finallyhe went to the field and dug a hole under some bamboo, and when the holewas large enough he crawled in and whispered that the presidente hadhorns. He then climbed out, filled up the hole, and went home.By and by some people came along the road on their way to market, andas they passed the bamboo they stopped in amazement, for surely a voicecame from the trees, and it said that the presidente had horns. Thesepeople hastened to market and told what they had heard, and the peoplethere went to the bamboo to listen to the strange voice. They informedothers, and soon the news had spread all over the town. The councilmenwere told, and they, too, went to the bamboo. When they had heard thevoice, they ran to the house of the presidente. But his wife said that hewas ill and they could not see him.By this time the horns had grown until they were one foot in length,and the presidente was so ashamed that he bade his wife tell the peoplethat he could not talk. She told this to the councilmen when they came onthe following day, but they replied that they must see him, for they hadheard that he had horns, and if this were true he had no right to governthe people.She refused to let them in, so they broke down the door. They saw thehorns of the head of the presidente and killed him. For, they said, he wasno better than an animal.