Once upon a time there was an old widow who had one son. and as she waspoorly and weak, her son had to go up into the storehouse to fetch mealfor cooking. but when he got outside the storehouse, and was just goingdown the steps, there came the North Wind, puffing and blowing, caught upthe meal, and so away with it through the air. Then the lad went back intothe storehouse for more. but when he came out again on the steps, if theNorth Wind didn't come again and carry off the meal with a puff. and morethan that, he did so the third time. At this the lad got very angry. andas he thought it hard that the North Wind should behave so, he thoughthe'd just look him up, and ask him to give up his meal. So off he went,but the way was long, and he walked and walked. but at last he came to theNorth Wind's house."Good day!" said the lad, and "Thank you for coming to see usyesterday.""Good day!" answered the North Wind, for his voice was loud and gruff,"and thanks for coming to see me. What do you want?""Oh!" answered the lad, "I only wished to ask you to be so good as tolet me have back that meal you took from me on the storehouse steps, forwe haven't much to live on. and if you're to go on snapping up the morselwe have there'll be nothing for it but to starve.""I haven't got your meal," said the North Wind. "but if you are in suchneed, I'll give you a cloth which will get you everything you want, if youonly say, 'Cloth, spread yourself, and serve up all kind of gooddishes!'"With this the lad was well content. But, as the way was so long hecouldn't get home in one day, so he turned into an inn on the way. andwhen they were going to sit down to supper, he laid the cloth on a tablewhich stood in the corner and said, "Cloth, spread yourself, and serve upall kinds of good dishes."He had scarce said so before the cloth did as it was bid. and all whostood by thought it a fine thing, but most of all the landlady. So, whenall were fast asleep, at dead of night, she took the lad's cloth, and putanother in its stead, just like the one he had got from the North Wind,but which couldn't so much as serve up a bit of dry bread.So, when the lad woke, he took his cloth and went off with it, and thatday he got home to his mother."Now," said he, "I've been to the North Wind's house, and a good fellowhe is, for he gave me this cloth, and when I only say to it, 'Cloth,spread yourself, and serve up all kind of good dishes,' I get any sort offood I please.""All very true, I daresay," said his mother. "but seeing is believing,and I shan't believe it till I see it."So the lad made haste, drew out a table, laid the cloth on it, andsaid, "Cloth, spread yourself, and serve up all kind of good dishes." Butnever a bit of dry bread did the cloth serve up."Well," said the lad, "there's no help for it but to go to the NorthWind again," and away he went.So he came to where the North Wind lived late in the afternoon."Good evening!" said the lad."Good evening!" said the North Wind."I want my rights for that meal of ours which you took," said the lad."for as for that cloth I got, it isn't worth a penny.""I've got no meal," said the North Wind. "but yonder you have a ramwhich coins nothing but golden ducats as soon as you say to it, 'Ram, ram,make money!'"So the lad thought this a fine thing. but as it was too far to get homethat day, he turned in for the night to the same inn where he had sleptbefore.Before he called for anything, he tried the truth of what the NorthWind had said of the ram, and found it all right. but when the landlordsaw that, he thought it was a famous ram, and, when the lad had fallenasleep, he took another which couldn't coin gold ducats, and changed thetwo.Next morning off went the lad, and when he got home to his mother, hesaid, "After all, the North Wind is a jolly fellow. for now he has givenme a ram which can coin golden ducats if I only say, 'Ram, ram, makemoney!'""All very true, I daresay," said his mother, "but I shan't believe anysuch stuff until I see the ducats made.""Ram, ram, make money!" said the lad. but if the ram made anything itwasn't money.So the lad went back again to the North Wind, and blew him up, and saidthe ram was worth nothing, and he must have his rights for the meal."Well," said the North Wind, "I've nothing else to give you but thatold stick in the corner yonder. but it's a stick of that kind that if yousay, 'Stick, stick, lay on!' it lays on till you say, 'Stick, stick, nowstop!'"So, as the way was long, the lad turned in this night too to thelandlord. but as he could pretty well guess how things stood as to thecloth and the ram, he lay down at once on the bench and began to snore, asif he were asleep.Now the landlord, who easily saw that the stick must be worthsomething, hunted up one which was like it, and when he heard the ladsnore, he was going to change the two, but just as the landlord was aboutto take it, the lad bawled out, "Stick, stick, lay on!"So the stick began to beat the landlord, till he jumped over chairs andtables and benches, and roared, "Oh my! Oh my! Bid the stick be still,else it will beat me to death, and you shall have back both your cloth andyour ram."When the lad thought the landlord had got enough, he said, "Stick,stick, now stop!"Then he took the cloth and put it into his pocket, and went home withhis stick in his hand, leading the ram by a cord around its horns, and sohe got his rights for the meal he had lost.