A merchant started his son in life with three hundred rupees, and badehim go to another country and try his luck in trade. The son took themoney and departed. He had not gone far before he came across someherdsmen quarrelling over a dog, that some of them wished to kill."Please do not kill the dog," pleaded the young and tender heartedfellow. "I will give you one hundred rupees for it." Then and there,of course, the bargain was concluded, and the foolish fellow took thedog, and continued his journey. He next met with some people fightingabout a cat. Some of them wanted to kill it, but others not. "Oh!please do not kill it," said he. "I will give you one hundred rupeesfor it." Of course they at once gave him the cat and took the money.He went on till he reached a village, where some folk were quarrellingover a snake that had just been caught. Some of them wished to killit, but others did not. "Please do not kill the snake," said he. "Iwill give you one hundred rupees." Of course the people agreed, andwere highly delighted.What a fool the fellow was! What would he do now that all his moneywas gone? What could he do except return to his father? Accordingly hewent home."You fool! You scamp!" exclaimed his father when he had heard how hisson had wasted all the money that had been given to him. "Go and livein the stables and repent of your folly. You shall never again entermy house."So the young man went and lived in the stables. His bed was the grassspread for the cattle, and his companions were the dog, the cat, andthe snake, which he had purchased so dearly. These creatures got veryfond of him, and would follow him about during the day, and sleep byhim at night. the cat used to sleep at his feet, the dog at his head,and the snake over his body, with its head hanging on one side and itstail on the other.One day the snake in course of conversation said to its master, "I amthe son of Raja Indrasha. One day, when I had come out of the groundto drink the air, some people seized me, and would have slain me hadyou not most opportunely arrived to my rescue. I do not know how Ishall ever be able to repay you for your great kindness to me. Wouldthat you knew my father! How glad he would be to see his son'spreserver!""Where does he live? I should like to see him, if possible," said theyoung man."Well said!" continued the snake. "Do you see yonder mountain? At thebottom of that mountain there is a sacred spring. If you will comewith me and dive into that spring, we shall both reach my father'scountry. Oh! how glad he will be to see you! He will wish to rewardyou, too. But how can he do that? However, you may be pleased toaccept something at his hand. If he asks you what you would like, youwould, perhaps, do well to reply, 'The ring on your right hand, andthe famous pot and spoon which you possess.' With these in yourpossession, you would never need anything, for the ring is such that aman has only to speak to it, and immediately a beautiful furnishedmansion will be provided for him, while the pot and the spoon willsupply him with all manner of the rarest and most delicious foods."Attended by his three companions the man walked to the well andprepared to jump in, according to the snake's directions. "O master!"exclaimed the cat and dog, when they saw what he was going to do."What shall we do? Where shall we go?""Wait for me here," he replied. "I am not going far. I shall not belong away." On saying this, he dived into the water and was lost tosight."Now what shall we do?" said the dog to the cat."We must remain here," replied the cat, "as our master ordered. Do notbe anxious about food. I will go to the people's houses and get plentyof food for both of us." And so the cat did, and they both lived verycomfortably till their master came again and joined them.The young man and the snake reached their destination in safety. andinformation of their arrival was sent to the Raja. His highnesscommanded his son and the stranger to appear before him. But the snakerefused, saying that it could not go to its father till it wasreleased from this stranger, who had saved it from a most terribledeath, and whose slave it therefore was. Then the Raja went andembraced his son, and saluting the stranger welcomed him to hisdominions. The young man stayed there a few days, during which hereceived the Raja's right hand ring, and the pot and spoon, inrecognition of His Highness's gratitude to him for having deliveredhis son. He then returned. On reaching the top of the spring he foundhis friends, the dog and the cat, waiting for him. They told oneanother all they had experienced since they had last seen each other,and were all very glad. Afterwards they walked together to the riverside, where it was decided to try the powers of the charmed ring andpot and spoon.The merchant's son spoke to the ring, and immediately a beautifulhouse and a lovely princess with golden hair appeared. He spoke to thepot and spoon, also, and the most delicious dishes of food wereprovided for them. So he married the princess, and they lived veryhappily for several years, until one morning the princess, whilearranging her toilet, put the loose hairs into a hollow bit of reedand threw them into the river that flowed along under the window. Thereed floated on the water for many miles, and was at last picked up bythe prince of that country, who curiously opened it and saw the goldenhair. On finding it the prince rushed off to the palace, lockedhimself up in his room, and would not leave it. He had fallendesperately in love with the woman whose hair he had picked up, andrefused to eat, or drink, or sleep, or move, till she was brought tohim. The king, his father, was in great distress about the matter, anddid not know what to do. He feared lest his son should die and leavehim without an heir. At last he determined to seek the counsel of hisaunt, who was an ogress. The old woman consented to help him, andbade him not to be anxious, as she felt certain that she would succeedin getting the beautiful woman for his son's wife.She assumed the shape of a bee and went along buzzing, and buzzing,and buzzing. Her keen sense of smell soon brought her to the beautifulprincess, to whom she appeared as an old hag, holding in one hand astick by way of support. She introduced herself to the beautifulprincess and said, "I am your aunt, whom you have never seen before,because I left the country just after your birth." She also embracedand kissed the princess by way of adding force to her words. Thebeautiful princess was thoroughly deceived. She returned the ogress'sembrace, and invited her to come and stay in the house as long as shecould, and treated her with such honour and attention, that the ogressthought to herself, "I shall soon accomplish my errand." When she hadbeen in the house three days, she began to talk of the charmed ring,and advised her to keep it instead of her husband, because the latterwas constantly out shooting and on other such like expeditions, andmight lose it. Accordingly the beautiful princess asked her husbandfor the ring, and he readily gave it to her.The ogress waited another day before she asked to see the preciousthing. Doubting nothing, the beautiful princess complied, when theogress seized the ring, and reassuming the form of a bee flew awaywith it to the palace, where the prince was lying nearly on the pointof death. "Rise up. Be glad. Mourn no more," she said to him. "Thewoman for whom you yearn will appear at your summons. See, here is thecharm, whereby you may bring her before you." The prince was almostmad with joy when he heard these words, and was so desirous of seeingthe beautiful princess, that he immediately spoke to the ring, and thehouse with its fair occupant descended in the midst of the palacegarden. He at once entered the building, and telling the beautifulprincess of his intense love, entreated her to be his wife. Seeing noescape from the difficulty, she consented on the condition that hewould wait one month for her.Meanwhile the merchant's son had returned from hunting and wasterribly distressed not to find his house and wife. There was theplace only, just as he knew it before he had tried the charmed ringwhich Raja Indrasha had given him. He sat down and determined to putan end to himself. Presently the cat and dog came up. They had goneaway and hidden themselves, when they saw the house and everythingdisappear. "O master!" they said, "stay your hand. Your trial isgreat, but it can be remedied. Give us one month, and we will go andtry to recover your wife and house.""Go," said he, "and may the great God aid your efforts. Bring back mywife, and I shall live."So the cat and dog started off at a run, and did not stop till theyreached the place whither their mistress and the house had been taken."We may have some difficulty here," said the cat. "Look, the king hastaken our master's wife and house for himself. You stay here. I willgo to the house and try to see her." So the dog sat down, and the catclimbed up to the window of the room, wherein the beautiful princesswas sitting, and entered. The princess recognised the cat, andinformed it of all that had happened to her since she had left them."But is there no way of escape from the hands of these people?" sheasked."Yes," replied the cat, "if you can tell me where the charmed ringis.""The ring is in the stomach of the ogress," she said."All right," said the cat, "I will recover it. If we once get it,everything is ours." Then the cat descended the wall of the house, andwent and laid down by a rat's hole and pretended she was dead. Now atthat time a great wedding chanced to be going on among the ratcommunity of that place, and all the rats of the neighbourhood wereassembled in that one particular mine by which the cat had lain down.The eldest son of the king of the rats was about to be married. Thecat got to know of this, and at once conceived the idea of seizing thebridegroom and making him render the necessary help. Consequently,when the procession poured forth from the hole squealing and jumpingin honour of the occasion, it immediately spotted the bridegroom andpounced down on him. "Oh! let me go, let me go," cried the terrifiedrat. "Oh! let him go," squealed all the company. "It is his weddingday.""No, no," replied the cat. "Not unless you do something for me.Listen. The ogress, who lives in that house with the prince and hiswife, has swallowed a ring, which I very much want. If you willprocure it for me, I will allow the rat to depart unharmed. If you donot, then your prince dies under my feet.""Very well, we agree," said they all. "Nay, if we do not get the ringfor you, devour us all."This was rather a bold offer. However, they accomplished thething. At midnight, when the ogress was sound asleep, one of the ratswent to her bedside, climbed up on her face, and inserted its tailinto her throat. whereupon the ogress coughed violently, and the ringcame out and rolled on to the floor. The rat immediately seized theprecious thing and ran off with it to its king, who was very glad, andwent at once to the cat and released its son.As soon as the cat received the ring, she started back with the dog togo and tell their master the good tidings. All seemed safe now. Theyhad only to give the ring to him, and he would speak to it, and thehouse and beautiful princess would again be with them, and everythingwould go on as happily as before. "How glad master will be!" theythought, and ran as fast as their legs could carry them. Now, on theway they had to cross a stream. The dog swam, and the cat sat on itsback. Now the dog was jealous of the cat, so he asked for the ring,and threatened to throw the cat into the water if it did not give itup. whereupon the cat gave up the ring. Sorry moment, for the dog atonce dropped it, and a fish swallowed it."Oh! what shall I do? what shall I do?" said the dog."What is done is done," replied the cat. "We must try to recover it,and if we do not succeed we had better drown ourselves in this stream.I have a plan. You go and kill a small lamb, and bring it here to me.""All right," said the dog, and at once ran off. He soon came back witha dead lamb, and gave it to the cat. The cat got inside the lamb andlay down, telling the dog to go away a little distance and keep quiet.Not long after this a nadhar, a bird whose look can break the bonesof a fish, came and hovered over the lamb, and eventually pounced downon it to carry it away. On this the cat came out and jumped on to thebird, and threatened to kill it if it did not recover the lost ring.This was most readily promised by the nadhar, who immediately flew offto the king of the fishes, and ordered it to make inquiries and torestore the ring. The king of the fishes did so, and the ring wasfound and carried back to the cat."Come along now. I have got the ring," said the cat to the dog."No, I will not," said the dog, "unless you let me have the ring. Ican carry it as well as you. Let me have it or I will kill you." Sothe cat was obliged to give up the ring. The careless dog very soondropped it again. This time it was picked up and carried off by akite."See, see, there it goes away to that big tree," the cat exclaimed."Oh! oh! what have I done?" cried the dog."You foolish thing, I knew it would be so," said the cat. "But stopyour barking, or you will frighten away the bird to some place wherewe shall not be able to trace it."The cat waited till it was quite dark, and then climbed the tree,killed the kite, and recovered the ring. "Come along," it said to thedog when it reached the ground. "We must make haste now. We have beendelayed. Our master will die from grief and suspense. Come on."The dog, now thoroughly ashamed of itself, begged the cat's pardon forall the trouble it had given. It was afraid to ask for the ring thethird time, so they both reached their sorrowing master in safety andgave him the precious charm. In a moment his sorrow was turned intojoy. He spoke to the ring, and his beautiful wife and housereappeared, and he and everybody were as happy as ever they could be.