My fifth brother (El Feshshar) was cropped of his ears, OPrince of the Faithful. He was a pauper, who begged alms by night, andsubsisted upon what he thus acquired by day: and our father was a veryold man, and he fell sick and died, leaving to us seven hundred piecesof silver, of which each of us took his portion. namely, a hundredpieces. Now my fifth brother, when he had received his share, wasperplexed, not knowing what to do with it. but while he was in thisstate, it occurred to his mind to buy with it all kinds of articles ofglass, and to sell them and make profit. so he bought glass with hishundred pieces of silver, and put it in a large tray, and sat upon anelevated place, to sell it, leaning his back against a wall. And as hesat, he meditated, and said within himself, Verily my whole stockconsisteth of this glass: I will sell it for two hundred pieces ofsilver. and with the two hundred I will buy other glass, which I willsell for four hundred. and thus I will continue buying and selling untilI have acquired great wealth. Then with this I will purchase all kindsof merchandise and essences and jewels, and so obtain vast gain. Afterthat, I will buy a handsome house, and memlooks, and horses, and gildedsaddles. and I will eat and drink. and I will not leave in the city asingle female singer but I will have her brought to my house that I mayhear her songs. All this he calculated with the tray of glass lyingbefore him. Then, said he, I will send all the female betrothers toseek in marriage for me the daughters of Kings and Wezeers. and I willdemand as my wife the daughter of the chief Wezeer. for Ihave heard that she is endowed with perfect beauty and surprisingloveliness: and I will give as her dowry a thousand pieces of gold. Ifher father consent, my wish is attained. and if he consent not, I willtake her by force, in spite of him: and when I have come back to myhouse, I will buy ten young eunuchs, and I will purchase the apparel ofKings and Sulans, and cause to be made for me a saddle of gold set withjewels: after which I will ride every day upon a horse, with slavesbehind me and before me, and go about through the streets andmarkets to amuse myself, while the people will salute me and pray forme. Then I will pay a visit to the Wezeer, who is the fatherof the maiden, with memlooks behind me and before me, and on my righthand and on my left. and when he seeth me, he will rise to me, inhumility, and seat me in his own place. and he himself will sit downbelow me, because I am his son in law. I will then order oneof the servants to bring a purse containing the pieces of gold whichcompose the dowry. and he will place it before the Wezeer. and I willadd to it another purse, that he may know my manly spirit and excessivegenerosity, and that the world is contemptible in my eye: and when headdresseth me with ten words, I will answer him with two. And I willreturn to my house. and when any person cometh to me from the house ofthe Wezeer, I will clothe him with a rich dress: but if any come with apresent, I will return it: I will certainly not accept it.Then, on the night of the bridal display, I will attire myself in themost magnificent of my dresses, and sit upon a mattress covered withsilk. and when my wife cometh to me, like the full moon, decked with herornaments and apparel, I will command her to stand before me as standsthe timid and the abject. and I will not look at her, on account of thehaughtiness of my spirit and the gravity of my wisdom. so that the maidswill say, O our master and our lord, may we be thy sacrifice! This thywife, or rather thy handmaid, awaiteth thy kind regard, and is standingbefore thee: then graciously bestow on her one glance. for the posturehath become painful to her. Upon this, I will raise myhead, and look at her with one glance, and again incline my headdownwards. and thus I will do until the ceremony of displaying her isfinished. whereupon they will conduct her to the sleeping chamber. and Iwill rise from my place, and go to another apartment, and put on mynight dress, and go to the chamber in which she is sitting, where I willseat myself upon the deewan. but I will not look towards her. Thetire women will urge me to approach her. but I will not hear theirwords, and will order some of the attendants to bring a purse containingfive hundred pieces of gold for them, and command them to retire fromthe chamber. And when they have gone, I will seat myself bythe side of the bride. but with averted countenance, that she may say,Verily this is a man of a haughty spirit. Then her mother will come tome, and will kiss my hands, and say to me, O my master, look upon thyhandmaid with the eye of mercy. for she is submissively standing beforethee. But I will return her no answer. And she will kiss my feet, againand again, and will say, O my master, my daughter is young, and hathseen no man but thee. and if she experience from thee repugnance, herheart will break: incline to her, therefore, and speak to her, and calmher mind. And upon this I will look at her through the corner of my eye,and command her to remain standing before me, that she may taste thesavour of humiliation, and know that I am the Sulan of the age. Thenher mother will say to me, O my master, this is thy handmaid: havecompassion upon her, and be gracious to her: and she will order her tofill a cup with wine, and to put it to my mouth. So her daughter willsay, O my lord, I conjure thee by Allah that thou reject not the cupfrom thy slave. for verily I am thy slave. But I will make her noreply. and she will urge me to take it, and will say, It must bedrunk: and will put it to my mouth: and upon this, I will shake my handin her face, and spurn her with my foot, and do thus. So saying, hekicked the tray of glass, which, being upon a place elevated above theground, fell, and all that was in it broke: there escaped nothing: andhe cried out and said, All this is the result of my pride! And heslapped his face, and tore his clothes. the passengers gazing at him,while he wept, and exclaimed, Ah! O my grief!