There was once upon a time a pig who lived with her three children on alarge, comfortable, old fashioned farmyard. The eldest of the little pigswas called Browny, the second Whitey, and the youngest and best lookingBlacky. Now Browny was a very dirty little pig, and, I am sorry to say,spent most of his time rolling and wallowing about in the mud. He wasnever so happy as on a wet day, when the mud in the farmyard got soft, andthick, and slab. Then he would steal away from his mother's side, andfinding the muddiest place in the yard, would roll about in it andthoroughly enjoy himself.His mother often found fault with him for this, and would shake herhead sadly and say, "Ah, Browny! Some day you will be sorry that you didnot obey your old mother."But no words of advice or warning could cure Browny of his badhabits.Whitey was quite a clever little pig, but she was greedy. She wasalways thinking of her food, and looking forward to her dinner. And whenthe farm girl was seen carrying the pails across the yard, she would riseup on her hind legs and dance and caper with excitement. As soon as thefood was poured into the trough she jostled Blacky and Browny out of theway in her eagerness to get the best and biggest bits for herself. Hermother often scolded her for her selfishness, and told her that somedayshe would suffer for being so greedy and grabbing.Blacky was a good, nice little pig, neither dirty nor greedy. He hadnice dainty ways (for a pig), and his skin was always as smooth andshining as black satin. He was much cleverer than Browny and Whitey, andhis mother's heart used to swell with pride when she heard the farmer'sfriends say to each other that someday the little black fellow would be aprize pig.Now the time came when the mother pig felt old and feeble and near herend. One day she called the three little pigs round her and said, "Mychildren, I feel that I am growing old and weak, and that I shall not livelong. Before I die I should like to build a house for each of you, as thisdear old sty in which we have lived so happily will be given to a newfamily of pigs, and you will have to turn out. Now, Browny, what sort of ahouse would you like to have?""A house of mud," replied Browny, looking longingly at a wet puddle inthe corner of the yard."And you, Whitey?" said the mother pig in rather a sad voice, for shewas disappointed that Browny had made so foolish a choice."A house of cabbage," answered Whitey, with a mouth full, and scarcelyraising her snout out of the trough in which she was grubbing for somepotato parings."Foolish, foolish child!" said the mother pig, looking quitedistressed. "And you, Blacky?" turning to her youngest son. "What sort ofa house shall I order for you?""A house of brick, please mother, as it will be warm in winter and coolin summer, and safe all the year round.""That is a sensible little pig," replied his mother, looking fondly athim. "I will see that the three houses are got ready at once. And now onelast piece of advice. You have heard me talk of our old enemy the fox.When he hears that I am dead, he is sure to try and get hold of you, tocarry you off to his den. He is very sly and will no doubt disguisehimself, and pretend to be a friend, but you must promise me not to lethim enter your houses on any pretext whatever."And the little pigs readily promised, for they had always had a greatfear of the fox, of whom they had heard many terrible tales.A short time afterwards the old pig died, and the little pigs went tolive in their own houses.Browny was quite delighted with his soft mud walls and with the clayfloor, which soon looked like nothing but a big mud pie. But that was whatBrowny enjoyed, and he was as happy as possible, rolling about all day andmaking himself in such a mess.One day, as he was lying half asleep in the mud, he heard a soft knockat his door, and a gentle voice said, "May I come in, Master Browny? Iwant to see your beautiful new house.""Who are you?" said Browny, starting up in great fright, for though thevoice sounded gentle, he felt sure it was a feigned voice, and he fearedit was the fox."I am a friend come to call on you," answered the voice."No, no," replied Browny, "I don't believe you are a friend. You arethe wicked fox, against whom our mother warned us. I won't let youin.""Oho! Is that the way you answer me?" said the fox, speaking veryroughly in his natural voice. "We shall soon see who is master here," andwith his paws he set to work and scraped a large hole in the soft mudwalls. A moment later he had jumped through it, and catching Browny by theneck, flung him on his shoulders and trotted off with him to his den.The next day, as Whitey was munching a few leaves of cabbage out of thecorner of her house, the fox stole up to her door, determined to carry heroff to join her brother in his den. He began speaking to her in the samefeigned gentle voice in which he had spoken to Browny. But it frightendher very much when he said, "I am a friend come to visit you, and to havesome of your good cabbage for my dinner.""Please don't touch it," cried Whitey in great distress. "The cabbagesare the walls of my house, and if you eat them you will make a hole, andthe wind and rain will come in and give me a cold. Do go away. I am sureyou are not a friend, but our wicked enemy the fox."And poor Whitey began to whine and to whimper, and to wish that she hadnot been such a greedy little pig, and had chosen a more solid materialthan cabbages for her house. But it was too late now, and in anotherminute the fox had eaten his way through the cabbage walls, and had caughtthe trembling, shivering Whitey and carried her off to his den.The next day the fox started off for Blacky's house, because he hadmade up his mind that he would get the three little pigs together in hisden, and then kill them, and invite all his friends to a feast. But whenhe reached the brick house, he found that the door was bolted and barred,so in his sly manner he began, "Do let me in, dear Blacky. I have broughtyou a present of some eggs that I picked up in a farmyard on my wayhere.""No, no, Mister Fox," replied Blacky. "I am not gong to open my door toyou. I know your cunning ways. You have carried off poor Browny andWhitey, but you are not going to get me."At this the fox was so angry that he dashed with all his force againstthe wall, and tried to knock it down. But it was too strong and wellbuilt. And though the fox scraped and tore at the bricks with his paws, heonly hurt himself, and at last he had to give it up, and limp away withhis forepaws all bleeding and sore."Never mind!" he cried angrily as he went off. "I'll catch you anotherday, see if I don't, and won't I grind your bones to powder when I havegot you in my den!" And he snarled fiercely and showed his teeth.Next day Blacky had to go into the neighboring town to do somemarketing and to buy a big kettle. As he was walking home with it slungover his shoulder, he heard a sound of steps stealthily creeping afterhim. For a moment his heart stood still with fear, and then a happythought came to him. He had just reached the top of a hill, and could seehis own little house nestling at the foot of it among the trees. In amoment he had snatched the lid off the kettle and had jumped in himself.Coiling himself round, he lay quite snug in the bottom of the kettle,while with his foreleg he managed to put the lid on, so that he wasentirely hidden. With a little kick from the inside, he started the kettleoff, and down the hill it rolled full tilt. And when the fox came up, allthat he saw was a large black kettle spinning over the ground at a greatpace. Very much disappointed, he was just going to turn away, when he sawthe kettle stop close to the little brick house, and a moment later,Blacky jumped out of it and escaped with the kettle into the housed, whenhe barred and bolted the door, and put the shutter up over the window."Oho!" exclaimed the fox to himself. "You think you will escape me thatway, do you? We shall soon see about that, my friend." And very quietlyand stealthily he prowled round the house looking for some way to climbonto the roof.In the meantime Blacky had filled the kettle with water, and having putit on the fire, sat down quietly waiting for it to boil. Just as thekettle was beginning to sing, and steam to come out of the spout, he hearda sound like a soft, muffled step, patter, patter, patter overhead, andthe next moment the fox's head and forepaws were seen coming down thechimney. But Blacky very wisely had not put the lid on the kettle, and,with a yelp of pain, the fox fell into the boiling water, and before hecould escape, Blacky had popped the lid on, and the fox was scalded todeath.As soon as he was sure that their wicked enemy was really dead, andcould do them no further harm, Blacky started off to rescue Browny andWhitey. As he approached the den he heard piteous grunts and squeals fromhis poor little brother and sister who lived in constant terror of the foxkilling and eating them. But when they saw Blacky appear at the entranceto the den, their joy knew no bounds. He quickly found a sharp stone andcut the cords by which they were tied to a stake in the ground, and thenall three started off together for Blacky's house, where they livedhappily ever after. And Browny quite gave up rolling in the mud, andWhitey ceased to be greedy, for they never forgot how nearly these faultshad brought them to an untimely end.