Once upon a time a fat sleek rat was caught in a shower of rain, andbeing far from shelter he set to work and soon dug a nice hole in theground, in which he sat as dry as a bone while the raindrops splashedoutside, making little puddles on the road.Now in the course of his digging he came upon a fine bit of root, quitedry and fit for fuel, which he set aside carefully   for the rat is aneconomical creature   in order to take it home with him. So when theshower was over, he set off with the dry root in his mouth. As he wentalong, daintily picking his way through the puddles, he saw a poor manvainly trying to light a fire, while a little circle of children stood by,and cried piteously."Goodness gracious!" exclaimed the rat, who was both soft hearted andcurious, "what a dreadful noise to make! What is the matter?""The bairns (children) are hungry," answered the man. "they are cryingfor their breakfast, but the sticks are damp, the fire won't burn, and soI can't bake the cakes.""If that is all your trouble, perhaps I can help you," said thegood natured rat. "you are welcome to this dry root, and I'll warrant itwill soon make a fine blaze."The poor man, with a thousand thanks, took the dry root, and in histurn presented the rat with a morsel of dough, as a reward for hiskindness and generosity."What a remarkably lucky fellow I am!" thought the rat, as he trottedoff gaily with his prize, "and clever too! Fancy making a bargain likethat: food enough to last me five days in return for a rotten old stick!Wah! wah! wah! What it is to have brains!"Going along, hugging his good fortune in this way, he came presently toa potter's yard, where the potter, leaving his wheel to spin round byitself, was trying to pacify his three little children, who were screamingand crying as if they would burst."My gracious!" cried the rat, stopping his ears, "what a noise! Do tellme what it is all about.""I suppose they are hungry," replied the potter ruefully. "Their motherhas gone to get flour in the bazaar, for there is none in the house. Inthe meantime I can neither work nor rest because of them.""Is that all!" answered the officious rat. "Then I can help you. Takethis dough, cook it quickly, and stop their mouths with food."The potter overwhelmed the rat with thanks for his obliging kindness,and choosing out a nice well burnt pipkin, (an earthen pot), insisted onhis accepting it as a remembrance.The rat was delighted at the exchange, and though the pipkin was just atrifle awkward for him to manage, he succeeded after infinite trouble inbalancing it on his head, and went away gingerly, tink a tink ,tink a tink , down the road, with his tail over his arm for fear heshould trip on it. And all the time he kept saying to himself, "What alucky fellow I am! and clever too! Such a hand at a bargain!"By and by he came to where some neatherds (herdsmen) were herding theircattle. One of them was milking a buffalo, and having no pail he used hisshoes instead."Oh fie! oh fie!" cried the cleanly rat, quite shocked at the sight."What a nasty dirty trick! Why don't you use a pail?""For the best of all reasons: We haven't got one!" growled theneatherd, who did not see why the rat should put his finger in thepie."If that is all," replied the dainty rat, "oblige me by using thispipkin, for I cannot bear dirt!"The neatherd, nothing loath, took the pipkin, and milked away until itwas brimming over. Then turning to the rat, who stood looking on, said,"Here, little fellow, you may have a drink, in payment."But if the rat was good natured he was also shrewd. "No, no, myfriend," said he, "that will not do! As if I could drink the worth of mypipkin at a draught! My dear sir, I couldn't hold it! Besides, Inever make a bad bargain, so I expect you at least to give me the buffalothat gave the milk.""Nonsense!" cried the neatherd. "A buffalo for a pipkin! Who ever heardof such a price? And what on earth could you do with a buffalo whenyou got it? Why, the pipkin was about as much as you could manage."At this the rat drew himself up with dignity, for he did not likeallusions to his size."That is my affair, not yours," he retorted. "Your business is to handover the buffalo."So just for the fun of the thing, and to amuse themselves at the rat'sexpense, the neatherds loosed the buffalo's halter and began to tie it tothe little animal's tail."No! no!" he called, in a great hurry. "If the beast pulled, the skinof my tail would come off, and then where should I be? Tie it round myneck, if you please."So with much laughter the neatherds tied the halter round the rat'sneck, and he, after a polite leave taking, set off gaily towards home withhis prize. that is to say, he set off with the rope , for no soonerdid he come to the end of the tether than he was brought up with a roundturn. The buffalo, nose down grazing away, would not budge until it hadfinished its tuft of grass, and then seeing another in a differentdirection marched off towards it, while the rat, to avoid being dragged,had to trot humbly behind, willy nilly.He was too proud to confess the truth, of course, and, nodding his headknowingly to the neatherds, said, "Ta ta, good people! I am going homethis way. It may be a little longer, but it's much shadier."And when the neatherds roared with laughter he took no notice, buttrotted on, looking as dignified as possible."After all," he reasoned to himself, "when one keeps a buffalo one hasto look after its grazing. A beast must get a good bellyful of grass if itis to give any milk, and I have plenty of time at my disposal."So all day long he trotted about after the buffalo, making believe. Butby evening he was dead tired, and felt truly thankful when the great bigbeast, having eaten enough, lay down under a tree to chew the cud.Just then a bridal party came by. The bridegroom and his friends hadevidently gone on to the next village, leaving the bride's palanquin(litter) to follow. so the palanquin bearers, being lazy fellows andseeing a nice shady tree, put down their burden, and began to cook somefood."What detestable meanness!" grumbled one. "A grand wedding, and nothingbut plain rice pottage to eat! Not a scrap of meat in it, neither sweetnor salt! It would serve the skinflints right if we upset the bride into aditch!""Dear me!" cried the rat at once, seeing a way out of his difficulty,"that is a shame! I sympathize with your feelings so entirely thatif you will allow me I'll give you my buffalo. You can kill it, and cookit."" Your buffalo!" returned the discontented bearers, "whatrubbish! Whoever heard of a rat owning a buffalo?""Not often, I admit," replied the rat with conscious pride. "but lookfor yourselves. Can you not see that I am leading the beast by astring?""Oh, never mind the string!" cried a great big hungry bearer. "Masteror no master, I mean to have meat to my dinner!"Whereupon they killed the buffalo, and, cooking its flesh, ate theirdinner with relish. Then, offering the remains to the rat, saidcarelessly, "Here, little Rat Skin, that is for you!""Now look here!" cried the rat hotly. "I'll have none of your pottage,nor your sauce either. You don't suppose I am going to give my bestbuffalo, that gave quarts and quarts of milk   the buffalo I have beenfeeding all day   for a wee bit of rice? No! I got a loaf for a bit ofstick. I got a pipkin for a little loaf. I got a buffalo for a pipkin. Andnow I'll have the bride for my buffalo   the bride, and nothingelse!"By this time the servants, having satisfied their hunger, began toreflect on what they had done, and becoming alarmed at the consequences,arrived at the conclusion it would be wisest to make their escape whilstthey could. So, leaving the bride in her palanquin, they took to theirheels in various directions.The rat, being as it were left in possession, advanced to thepalanquin, and drawing aside the curtain, with the sweetest of voices andbest of bows begged the bride to descend. She hardly knew whether to laughor to cry, but as any company, even a rat's, was better than being quitealone in the wilderness, she did as she was bidden, and followed the leadof her guide, who set off as fast as he could for his hole.As he trotted along beside the lovely young bride, who, by her richdress and glittering jewels, seemed to be some king's daughter, he keptsaying to himself, "How clever I am! What bargains I do make, to besure!"When they arrived at his hole, the rat stepped forward with thegreatest politeness, and said, "Welcome, madam, to my humble abode! Praystep in, or if you will allow me, and as the passage is somewhat dark, Iwill show you the way."Whereupon he ran in first, but after a time, finding the bride did notfollow, he put his nose out again, saying testily, "Well, madam, why don'tyou follow? Don't you know it's rude to keep your husband waiting?""My good sir," laughed the handsome young bride, "I can't squeeze intothat little hole!"The rat coughed. Then after a moment's thought he replied, "There issome truth in your remark. You are overgrown, and I suppose I shallhave to build you a thatch somewhere. For tonight you can rest under thatwild plum tree.""But I am so hungry!" said the bride ruefully."Dear, dear! everybody seems hungry today!" returned the rat pettishly."however, that's easily settled. I'll fetch you some supper in atrice."So he ran into his hole, returning immediately with an ear of milletand a dry pea."There!" said he, triumphantly, "isn't that a fine meal?""I can't eat that!" whimpered the bride. "It isn't a mouthful. and Iwant rice pottage, and cakes. and sweet eggs, and sugar drops. I shall dieif I don't get them!""Oh dear me!" cried the rat in a rage, "what a nuisance a bride is, tobe sure! Why don't you eat the wild plums?""I can't live on wild plums!" retorted the weeping bride. "Nobodycould. Besides, they are only half ripe, and I can't reach them.""Rubbish!" cried the rat. "Ripe or unripe, they must do you fortonight, and tomorrow you can gather a basketful, sell them in the city,and buy sugar drops and sweet eggs to your heart's content!"So the next morning the rat climbed up into the plum tree, and nibbledaway at the stalks till the fruit fell down into the bride's veil. Then,unripe as they were, she carried them into the city, calling out throughthe streets:Green plums I sell! green plums I sell!Princess am I, rat's bride as well!As she passed by the palace, her mother the queen heard her voice, and,running out, recognized her daughter. Great were the rejoicings, foreveryone thought the poor bride had been eaten by wild beasts.In the midst of the feasting and merriment, the rat, who had followedthe princess at a distance, and had become alarmed at her long absence,arrived at the door, against which he beat with a big knobby stick,calling out fiercely, "Give me my wife! give me my wife! She is mine byfair bargain. I gave a stick and I got a loaf. I gave a loaf and I got apipkin. I gave a pipkin and I got a buffalo. I gave a buffalo and I got abride. Give me my wife! Give me my wife!""La! son in law! what a fuss you do make!" said the wily old queen,through the door, "and all about nothing! Who wants to run away with yourwife? On the contrary, we are proud to see you, and I only keep youwaiting at the door till we can spread the carpets, and receive you instyle."Hearing this, the rat was mollified, and waited patiently outsidewhilst the cunning old queen prepared for his reception, which she did bycutting a hole in the very middle of a stool, putting a red hot stoneunderneath, covering it over with a stew pan lid, and then spreading abeautiful embroidered cloth over all.Then she went to the door, and receiving the rat with the greatestrespect, led him to the stool, praying him to be seated."Dear! dear! how clever I am! What bargains I do make, to be sure!"said he to himself as he climbed onto the stool. "Here I am, son in law toa real live queen! What will the neighbors say?"At first he sat down on the edge of the stool, but even there it waswarm, and after a while he began to fidget, saying, "Dear me,mother in law! how hot your house is! Everything I touch seemsburning!""You are out of the wind there, my son," replied the cunning old queen."sit more in the middle of the stool, and then you will feel the breezeand get cooler."But he didn't! for the stew pan lid by this time had become so hot,that the rat fairly frizzled when he sat down on it. and it was not untilhe had left all his tail, half his hair, and a large piece of his skinbehind him, that he managed to escape, howling with pain, and vowing thatnever, never, never again would he make a bargain!