They relate, O Ifrit, that in a certain city were two men whodwelt in adjoining houses, having a common party wall. and one ofthem envied the other and looked on him with an evil eye,and did his utmost endeavour to injure him. and, albeit at alltimes he was jealous of his neighbour, his malice at last grew onhim till he could hardly eat or enjoy the sweet pleasures ofsleep. But the Envied did nothing save prosper. and the more theother strove to injure him, the more he got and gained andthrove. At last the malice of his neighbour and the man'sconstant endeavour to work him a harm came to his knowledge. sohe said, "By Allah! God's earth is wide enough for its people."and, leaving the neighbourhood, he repaired to another city wherehe bought himself a piece of land in which was a dried up drawwell, old and in ruinous condition. Here he built him anoratory and, furnishing it with a few necessaries, took up hisabode therein, and devoted himself to prayer and worshippingAllah Almighty. and Fakirs and holy mendicants docked to him fromall quarters. and his fame went abroad through the city and thatcountry side. Presently the news reached his envious neighbour,of what good fortune had befallen him and how the city notableshad become his disciples. so he travelled to the place andpresented himself at the holy man's hermitage, and was met by theEnvied with welcome and greeting and all honour. Then quoth theEnvier, "I have a word to say to thee. and this is the cause ofmy faring hither, and I wish to give thee a piece of good news.so come with me to thy cell." Thereupon the Envied arose and tookthe Envier by the hand, and they went in to the inmost part ofthe hermitage. but the Envier said, "Bid thy Fakirs retire totheir cells, for I will not tell thee what I have to say, save insecret where none may hear us." Accordingly the Envied said tohis Fakirs, "Retire to your private cells." and, when all haddone as he bade them, he set out with his visitor and walked alittle way until the twain reached the ruinous old well. And asthey stood upon the brink the Envier gave the Envied a push whichtumbled him headlong into it, unseen of any. whereupon he faredforth, and went his ways, thinking to have had slain him. Nowthis well happened to be haunted by the Jann who, seeing thecase, bore him up and let him down little by little, till hereached the bottom, when they seated him upon a large stone. Thenone of them asked his fellows, "Wot ye who be this man?" and theyanswered, "Nay." "This man," continued the speaker, "is theEnvied hight who, flying from the Envier, came to dwell in ourcity, and here founded this holy house, and he hath edified us byhis litanies and his lections of the Koran. but theEnvier set out and journeyed till he rejoined him, and cunninglycontrived to deceive him and cast him into the well where we noware. But the fame of this good man hath this very night come tothe Sultan of our city who designeth to visit him on the morrowon account of his daughter." "What aileth his daughter?" askedone, and another answered "She is possessed of a spirit. forMaymun, son of Damdam, is madly in love with her. but, if thispious man knew the remedy, her cure would be as easy as couldbe." Hereupon one of them inquired, "And what is the medicine?"and he replied, "The black tom cat which is with him in theoratory hath, on the end of his tail, a white spot, the size of adirham. let him pluck seven white hairs from the spot, then lethim fumigate her therewith and the Marid will flee from her andnot return. so she shall be sane for the rest of her life." Allthis took place, O Ifrit, within earshot of the Envied wholistened readily. When dawn broke and morn arose in sheen andshone, the Fakirs went to seek the Shaykh and found him climbingup the wall of the well. whereby he was magnified in theireyes. Then, knowing that naught save the black tomcatcould supply him with the remedy required, he plucked the seventail hairs from the white spot and laid them by him. and hardlyhad the sun risen ere the Sultan entered the hermitage, with thegreat lords of his estate, bidding the rest of his retinue toremain standing outside. The Envied gave him a hearty welcome,and seating him by his side asked him, "Shall I tell thee thecause of thy coming?" The King answered, "Yes." He continued,"Thou hast come upon pretext of a visitation. but it isin thy heart to question me of thy daughter." Replied the King, "'Tis even so, O thou holy Shaykh." and the Envied continued,"Send and fetch her, and I trust to heal her forthright (an suchit be the will of Allah!)" The King in great joy sent for hisdaughter, and they brought her pinioned and fettered. The Enviedmade her sit down behind a curtain and taking out the hairsfumigated her therewith. whereupon that which was in her headcried out and departed from her. The girl was at once restored toher right mind and veiling her face, said, "What hath happenedand who brought me hither?" The Sultan rejoiced with a joy thatnothing could exceed, and kissed his daughter's eyes, andthe holy man's hand. then, turning to his great lords, he asked,"How say ye! What fee deserveth he who hath made my daughterwhole?" and all answered, "He deserveth her to wife." and theKing said, "Ye speak sooth!" So he married him to her and theEnvied thus became son in law to the King. And after a little theWazir died and the King said, "Whom can I make Minister in hisstead?" "Thy son in law," replied the courtiers. So the Enviedbecame a Wazir. and after a while the Sultan also died and thelieges said, "Whom shall we make King?" and all cried, "TheWazir." So the Wazir was forthright made Sultan, and he becameKing regnant, a true ruler of men. One day as he had mounted hishorse. and, in the eminence of his kinglihood, was riding amidsthis Emirs and Wazirs and the Grandees of his realm his eye fellupon his old neighbour, the Envier, who stood afoot on his path.so he turned to one of his Ministers, and said, "Bring hitherthat man and cause him no affright." The Wazir brought him andthe King said, "Give him a thousand miskals of gold fromthe treasury, and load him ten camels with goods for trade, andsend him under escort to his own town." Then he bade his enemyfarewell and sent him away and forbore to punish him for the manyand great evils he had done. See, O Ifrit, the mercy of theEnvied to the Envier, who had hated him from the beginning andhad borne him such bitter malice and never met him withoutcausing him trouble. and had driven him from house and home, andthen had journeyed for the sole purpose of taking his life bythrowing him into the well. Yet he did not requite his injuriousdealing, but forgave him and was bountiful to him. Then Iwept before him, O my lady, with sore weeping, never was theresorer, and I recited: "Pardon my fault, for 'tis the wise man's wont All faults topardon and revenge forgo:In sooth all manner faults in me contain Then deign of goodnessmercy grace to show:Whoso imploreth pardon from on High Should hold his handfrom sinners here below."Said the Ifrit, "Lengthen not thy words! As to my slaying theefear it not, and as to my pardoning thee hope it not. but from mybewitching thee there is no escape." Then he tore me from theground which closed under my feet and hew with me into thefirmament till I saw the earth as a large white cloud or asaucer in the midst of the waters. Presently he set medown on a mountain, and taking a little dust, over which hemuttered some magical words, sprinkled me therewith, saying,"Quit that shape and take thou the shape of an ape!" And on theinstant I became an ape, a tailless baboon, the son of acentury. Now when he had left me and I saw myself in thisugly and hateful shape, I wept for myself, but resigned my soulto the tyranny of Time and Circumstance, well weeting thatFortune is fair and constant to no man. I descended the mountainand found at the foot a desert plain, long and broad, over whichI travelled for the space of a month till my course brought me tothe brink of the briny sea. After standing there awhile,I was ware of a ship in the offing which ran before a fair windmaking for the shore. I hid myself behind a rock on the beach andwaited till the ship drew near, when I leaped on board. I foundher full of merchants and passengers and one of them cried, "OCaptain, this ill omened brute will bring us ill luck!" andanother said, "Turn this ill omened beast out from among us." theCaptain said, "Let us kill it!" another said, "Slay it with thesword." a third, "Drown it." and a fourth, "Shoot it with anarrow." But I sprang up and laid hold of the Rais'sskirt, and shed tears which poured down my chops. The Captaintook pity on me, and said, "O merchants! this ape hath appealedto me for protection and I will protect him. henceforth he isunder my charge: so let none do him aught hurt or harm, otherwisethere will be bad blood between us." Then he entreated me kindlyand whatsoever he said I understood and ministered to his everywant and served him as a servant, albeit my tongue would not obeymy wishes. so that he came to love me. The vessel sailed on, thewind being fair, for the space of fifty days. at the end of whichwe cast anchor under the walls of a great city wherein was aworld of people, especially learned men, none could tell theirnumber save Allah. No sooner had we arrived than we were visitedby certain Mameluke officials from the King of that city. who,after boarding us, greeted the merchants and giving them joy ofsafe arrival said, "Our King welcometh you, and sendeth you thisroll of paper, whereupon each and every of you must write a line.For ye shall know that the King's Minister, a calligrapher ofrenown, is dead, and the King hath sworn a solemn oath that hewill make none Wazir in his stead who cannot write as well as hecould." He then gave us the scroll which measured ten cubits longby a breadth of one, and each of the merchants who knew how towrite wrote a line thereon, even to the last of them. after whichI stood up (still in the shape of an ape) and snatched the rollout of their hands. They feared lest I should tear it or throw itoverboard. so they tried to stay me and scare me, but I signed tothem that i could write, whereat all marvelled, saying, "We neveryet saw an, ape write." And the Captain cried, "Let him write.and if he scribble and scrabble we will kick him out and killhim. but if he. write fair and scholarly I will adopt him as myson. for surely I never yet saw a more intelligent and wellmannered monkey than he. Would Heaven my real son were his matchin morals and manners." I took the reed, and stretching out mypaw, dipped it in ink and wrote, in the hand used forletters, these two couplets: Time hath recorded gifts she gave the great. But none recordedthine which be far higherAllah ne'er orphan men by loss of thee Who be of Goodnessmother. Bounty's sire.And I wrote in Rayhani or larger letters elegantlycurved: Thou hast a reed of rede to every land, Whose drivingcauseth all the world to thrive.Nil is the Nile of Misraim by thy boons Who makest miserysmile with fingers fiveThen I wrote in the Suls character: There be no writer who from Death shall fleet, But what hishand hath writ men shall repeat:Write, therefore, naught save what shall serve thee when Thousee's on Judgment Day an so thou see's!Then I wrote in the character Naskh: When to sore parting Fate our love shall doom, To distant lifeby Destiny decreed,We cause the inkhorn's lips to 'plain our pains, And tongue ourutterance with the talking reed.And I wrote in the Tumar character: Kingdom with none endures. if thou deny This truth, where bethe Kings of earlier earth?Set trees of goodliness while rule endures, And when thou artfallen they shall tell thy worth.And I wrote in the character Muhakkak: When oped the inkhorn of thy wealth and fame Take ink ofgenerous heart and gracious hand.Write brave and noble deeds while write thou can And win theepraise from point of pen and brand.Then I gave the scroll to the officials and, after we all hadwritten our line, they carried it before the King. When he sawthe paper no writing pleased him save my writing. and he said tothe assembled courtiers, "Go seek the writer of these lines anddress him in a splendid robe of honour. then mount him on a shemule, let a band of music precede him and bring him tothe presence." At these words they smiled and the King was wrothwith them and cried, "O accursed! I give you an order and youlaugh at me?" "O King," replied they, "if we laugh 'tis not atthee and not without a cause." "And what is it?" asked he. andthey answered, "O King, thou orderest us to bring to thy presencethe man who wrote these lines. now the truth is that he who wrotethem is not of the sons of Adam, but an ape, a tail lessbaboon, belonging to the ship captain." Quoth he, "Is this truethat you say?" Quoth they, "Yea! by the rights of thymunificence!" The King marvelled at their words and shook withmirth and said, "I am minded to buy this ape of the Captain."Then he sent messengers to the ship with the mule, the dress, theguard and the state drums, saying, "Not the less do you clothehim in the robe of honour and mount him on the mule and let himbe surrounded by the guards and preceded by the band of music."They came to the ship and took me from the Captain and robed mein the robe of honour and, mounting me on the she mule, carriedme in state procession through the streets', whilst the peoplewere amazed and amused. And folk said to one another, "Halloo! isour Sultan about to make an ape his Minister?". and came all agogcrowding to gaze at me, and the town was astir and turned topsyturvy on my account. When they brought me up to the King and setme in his presence, I kissed the ground before him three times,and once before the High Chamberlain and great officers, and hebade me be seated, and I sat respectfully on shins andknees, and all who were present marvelled at my finemanners, and the King most of all. Thereupon he ordered thelieges to retire. and, when none remained save the King'smajesty, the Eunuch on duty and a little white slave, he badethem set before me the table of food, containing all manner ofbirds, whatever hoppeth and flieth and treadeth in nest, such asquail and sand grouse. Then he signed me to eat with him. so Irose and kissed ground before him, then sat me down and ate withhim. And when the table was removed I washed my hands in sevenwaters and took the reed case and reed. and wrote instead ofspeaking these couplets: Wail for the little partridges on porringer and plate. Cry forthe ruin of the fries and stews well marinate:Keen as I keen for loved, lost daughters of theKata grouse, And omelette round the fairenbrowned fowls agglomerate:O fire in heart of me for fish, those deux poissons I saw,Bedded on new made scones and cakes in piles tolaniate.For thee, O vermicelli! aches my very maw! I hold Without theeevery taste and joy are clean annihilateThose eggs have rolled their yellow eyes in torturing pains offire Ere served with hash and fritters hot, thatdelicatest cate.Praised be Allah for His baked and roast and ah! how good Thispulse, these pot herbs steeped in oil with eysill combinate!When hunger sated was, I elbow propt fell back upon Meatpudding wherein gleamed the bangles that my witsamate.Then woke I sleeping appetite to eat as though in sport Sweetsfrom broceded trays and kickshaws most elaborate.Be patient, soul of me! Time is a haughty, jealous wight. Todayhe seems dark lowering and tomorrow fair to sight.Then I rose and seated myself at a respectful distance while theKing read what I had written, and marvelled, exclaiming, "O themiracle, that an ape should be gifted with this graceful styleand this power of penmanship! By Allah, 'tis a wonder ofwonders!" Presently they set before the King choice wines inflagons of glass and he drank: then he passed on the cup to me.and I kissed the ground and drank and wrote on it: With fire they boiled me to loose my tongue, And painand patience gave for fellowship:Hence comes it hands of men upbear me high And honey dewfrom lips of maid I sip!And these also: Morn saith to Night, "withdraw and let me shine." So drain wedraughts that dull all pain and pine:I doubt, so fine the glass, the wine so clear, If 'tis the winein glass or glass in twine.The King read my verse and said with a sigh, "Were thesegifts in a man, he would excel all the folk of his timeand age!" Then he called for the chess board, and said, "Say,wilt thou play with me?". and I signed with my head, "Yes." ThenI came forward and ordered the pieces and played with him twogames, both of which I won. He was speechless with surprise. so Itook the pen case and, drawing forth a reed, wrote on the boardthese two couplets: Two hosts fare fighting thro' the livelong day Nor is theirbattling ever finished,Until, when darkness girdeth them about, The twain go sleepingin a single bed.The King read these lines with wonder and delight and said to hisEunuch, "O Mukbil, go to thy mistress, Sitt al Husn, and say her, 'Come, speak the King who biddeth theehither to take thy solace in seeing this right wondrous ape!"' Sothe Eunuch went out and presently returned with the lady who,when she saw me veiled her face and said, "O my father! hast thoulost all sense of honour? How cometh it thou art pleased to sendfor me and show me to strange men?" "O Sitt al Husn," said he,"no man is here save this little foot page and the Eunuch whoreared thee and I, thy father. From whom, then, cost thou veilthy face?" She answered, "This whom thou deemest an ape is ayoung man, a clever and polite, a wise and learned and the son ofa King. but he is ensorcelled and the Ifrit Jirjaris, who is ofthe seed of Iblis, cast a spell upon him, after putting to deathhis own wife the daughter of King Ifitamus lord of the Islands ofAbnus." The King marvelled at his daughter's words and, turningto me, said, "Is this true that she saith of thee?". and I signedby a nod of my head the answer, "Yea, verily." and wept sore.Then he asked his daughter, "Whence knewest thou that he isensorcelled?". and she answered, "O my dear papa, there was withme in my childhood an old woman, a wily one and a wise and awitch to boot, and she taught me the theory of magic and itspractice. and I took notes in writing and therein waxed perfect,and have committed to memory an hundred and seventy chapters ofegromantic formulas, by the least of which I could transport thestones of thy city behind the Mountain Kaf and the CircumambientMain, or make its site an abyss of the sea and its peoplefishes swimming in the midst of it." "O my daughter," said herfather, "I conjure thee, by my life, disenchant this young man,that I may make him my Wazir and marry thee to him, for indeed heis an ingenious youth and a deeply learned." "With joy and goodlygree," she replied and, hending in hand an iron knife whereon wasinscribed the name of Allah in Hebrew characters, she described awide circle And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceasedsaying her permitted say.When it was the Fourteenth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that theKalandar continued his tale thus: O my lady, the King's daughterhent in hand a knife whereon were inscribed Hebrew characters anddescribed a wide circle in the midst of the palace hall, andtherein wrote in Cufic letters mysterious names and talismans.and she uttered words and muttered charms, some of which weunderstood and others we understood not. Presently the world waxeddark before our sight till we thought that the sky was fallingupon our heads, and lo! the Ifrit presented himself in his ownshape and aspect. His hands were like many pronged pitch forks,his legs like the masts of great ships, and his eyes likecressets of gleaming fire. We were in terrible fear of him butthe King's daughter cried at him, "No welcome to thee and nogreeting, O dog!" whereupon he changed to the form of a lion andsaid, "O traitress, how is it thou hast broken the oath we swarethat neither should contraire other!" "O accursed one," answeredshe, "how could there be a compact between me and the like ofthee?" Then said he, "Take what thou has brought on thy self."and the lion opened his jaws and rushed upon her. but she was tooquick for him. and, plucking a hair from her head, waved it inthe air muttering over it the while. and the hair straightwaybecame a trenchant sword blade, wherewith she smote the lion andcut him in twain. Then the two halves flew away in air and thehead changed to a scorpion and the Princess became a huge serpentand set upon the accursed scorpion, and the two fought, coilingand uncoiling, a stiff fight for an hour at least. Then thescorpion changed to a vulture and the serpent became an eaglewhich set upon the vulture, and hunted him for an hour's time,till he became a black tom cat, which miauled and grinned andspat. Thereupon the eagle changed into a piebald wolf and thesetwo battled in the palace for a long time, when the cat, seeinghimself overcome, changed into a worm and crept into a huge redpomegranate, which lay beside the jetting fountain in themidst of the palace hall. Whereupon the pomegranate swelled tothe size of a water melon in air. and, falling upon the marblepavement of the palace, broke to pieces, and all the grains fellout and were scattered about till they covered the whole floor.Then the wolf shook himself and became a snow white cock, whichfell to picking up the grains purposing not to leave one. but bydoom of destiny one seed rolled to the fountain edge and therelay hid. The cock fell to crowing and clapping his wings andsigning to us with his beak as if to ask, ' Are any grains left?"But we understood not what he meant, and he cried to us with soloud a cry that we thought the palace would fall upon us. Then heran over all the floor till he saw the grain which had rolled tothe fountain edge, and rushed eagerly to pick it up when behold,it sprang into the midst of the water and became a fish and divedto the bottom of the basin. Thereupon the cock changed to a bigfish, and plunged in after the other, and the two disappeared fora while and lo! we heard loud shrieks and cries of pain whichmade us tremble. After this the Ifrit rose out of the water, andhe was as a burning flame. casting fire and smoke from his mouthand eyes and nostrils. And immediately the Princess likewise cameforth from the basin and she was one live coal of flaming lowe.and these two, she and he, battled for the space of an hour,until their fires entirely compassed them about and their thicksmoke filled the palace. As for us we panted for breath, beingwell nigh suffocated, and we longed to plunge into the waterfearing lest we be burnt up and utterly destroyed. and the Kingsaid, There is no Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah theGlorious, the Great! Verily we are Allah's and unto Him are wereturning! Would Heaven I had not urged my daughter to attemptthe disenchantment of this ape fellow, whereby I have imposedupon her the terrible task of fighting yon accursed Ifrit againstwhom all the Ifrits in the world could not prevail. And wouldHeaven we had never seen this ape, Allah never assain nor blessthe day of his coming! We thought to do a good deed by him beforethe face of Allah, and to release him from enchantment,and now we have brought this trouble and travail upon our heart."But I, O my lady, was tongue tied and powerless to say a word tohim. Suddenly, ere we were ware of aught, the Ifrit yelled outfrom under the flames and, coming up to us as we stood on theestrade, blew fire in our faces. The damsel overtook him andbreathed blasts of fire at his face and the sparks from her andfrom him rained down upon us, and her sparks did us no harm, butone of his sparks alighted upon my eye and destroyed it making mea monocular ape. and another fell on the King's face scorchingthe lower half, burning off his beard and mustachios and causinghis under teeth to fall out. while a third alighted on theCastrato's breast, killing him on the spot. So we despaired oflife and made sure of death when lo! a voice repeated the saying,"Allah is most Highest! Allah is most Highest! Aidance andvictory to all who the Truth believe. and disappointment anddisgrace to all who the religion of Mohammed, the Moon of Faith,unbelieve." The speaker was the Princess who had burnt the Ifrit,and he was become a heap of ashes. Then she came up to us andsaid, "Reach me a cup of water." They brought it to her and shespoke over it words we understood not, and sprinkling me with itcried, "By virtue of the Truth, and by the Most Great name ofAllah, I charge thee return to thy former shape." And behold, Ishook, and became a man as before, save that I had utterly lostan eye. Then she cried out, "The fire! The fire! O my dear papaan arrow from the accursed hath wounded me to the death, for I amnot used to fight with the Jann. had he been a man I had slainhim in the beginning. I had no trouble till the time when thepomegranate burst and the grains scattered, but I overlooked theseed wherein was the very life of the Jinni. Had I picked it uphe had died on the spot, but as Fate and Fortune decreed, I sawit not. so he came upon me all unawares and there befel betweenhim and me a sore struggle under the earth and high in air and inthe water. and, as often as I opened on him a gate, heopened on me another gate and a stronger, till at last he openedon me the gate of fire, and few are saved upon whom the door offire openeth. But Destiny willed that my cunning prevail over hiscunning. and I burned him to death after I vainly exhorted him toembrace the religion of al Islam. As for me I am a dead woman.Allah supply my place to you!" Then she called upon Heaven forhelp and ceased not to implore relief from the fire. when lo! ablack spark shot up from her robed feet to her thighs. then itflew to her bosom and thence to her face. When it reached herface she wept and said, "I testify that there is no god but theGod and that Mahommed is the Apostle of God!" And we looked ather and saw naught but a heap of ashes by the side of the heapthat had been the Ifrit. We mourned for her and I wished I hadbeen in her place, so had I not seen her lovely face who hadworked me such weal become ashes. but there is no gainsaying thewill of Allah. When the King saw his daughter's terrible death,he plucked out what was left of his beard and beat his face andrent his raiment. and I did as he did and we both wept over her.Then came in the Chamberlains and Grandees and were amazed tofind two heaps of ashes and the Sultan in a fainting fit. so theystood round him till he revived and told them what had befallenhis daughter from the Ifrit. whereat their grief was rightgrievous and the women and the slave girls shrieked andkeened, and they continued their lamentations for thespace of seven days. Moreover the King bade build over hisdaughter's ashes a vast vaulted tomb, and burn therein wax tapersand sepulchral lamps: but as for the Ifrit's ashes they scatteredthem on the winds, speeding them to the curse of Allah. Then theSultan fell sick of a sickness that well nigh brought him to hisdeath for a month's space. and, when health returned to him andhis beard grew again and he had been converted by the mercy ofAllah to al Islam, he sent for me and said, "O youth, Fate haddecreed for us the happiest of lives, safe from all the chancesand changes of Time, till thou camest to us, when troubles fellupon us. Would to Heaven we had never seen thee and the foul faceof thee! For we took pity on thee and thereby we have lost ourall. I have on thy account first lost my daughter who to me waswell worth an hundred men, secondly I have suffered that whichbefel me by reason of the fire and the loss of my teeth, and myEunuch also was slain. I blame thee not, for it was out of thypower to prevent this: the doom of Allah was on thee as well ason us and thanks be to the Almighty for that my daughterdelivered thee, albeit thereby she lost her own life! Go forthnow, O my son, from this my city, and suffice thee what hathbefallen us through thee, even although 'twas decreed for us. Goforth in peace. and if I ever see thee again I will surely slaythee." And he cried out at me. So I went forth from his presence,O my lady, weeping bitterly and hardly believing in my escape andknowing not whither I should wend. And I recalled all that hadbefallen me, my meeting the tailor, my love for the damsel in thepalace beneath the earth, and my narrow escape from the Ifrit,even after he had determined to do me die. and how I had enteredthe city as an ape and was now leaving it a man once more. Then Igave thanks to Allah and said, "My eye and not my life!" andbefore leaving the place I entered the bath and shaved my polland beard and mustachios and eye brows. and cast ashes on my headand donned the coarse black woollen robe of a Kalandar. Then Ifared forth, O my lady, and every day I pondered all thecalamities which had betided me, and I wept and repeated thesecouplets: "I am distraught, yet verily His ruth abides with me, Tho'round me gather hosts of ills, whence come I cannot see:Patient I'll be till Patience self with me impatient wax.Patient for ever till the Lord fulfil my destiny:Patient I'll bide without complaint, a wronged and vanquish" man.Patient as sunparcht wight that spans the desert's sandysea:Patient I'll be till Aloe's self unwittingly allow I'mpatient under bitterer things than bitterest aloe:No bitterer things than aloes or than patience for mankind, Yetbitterer than the twain to me were Patience' treachery:My sere and seamed and seared brow would dragoman my soreIf soul could search my sprite and there unsecret secrecy:Were hills to bear the load I bear they'd crumble 'neath theweight, 'Twould still the roaring wind, 'twould quench theflame tongue's flagrancy,And whoso saith the world is sweet certes a day he'll see Withmore than aloes' bitterness and aloes' pungency."Then I journeyed through many regions and saw many a cityintending for Baghdad, that I might seek audience, in the Houseof Peace, with the Commander of the Faithful and tell himall that had befallen me. I arrived here this very night andfound my brother in Allah, this first Kalandar, standing about asone perplexed. so I saluted him with "Peace be upon thee," andentered into discourse with him. Presently up came our brother,this third Kalandar, and said to us, "Peace be with you! I am astranger." whereto we replied, "And we too be strangers, who havecome hither this blessed night." So we all three walked ontogether, none of us knowing the other's history, till Destinycrave us to this door and we came in to you. Such then is mystory and my reason for shaving my beard and mustachios, and thisis what caused the loss of my eye. Said the house mistress, "Thytale is indeed a rare. so rub thy head and wend thy ways." but hereplied, "I will not budge till I hear my companions' stories."Then came forward the third Kalandar, and said, "O illustriouslady! my history is not like that of these my comrades, but morewondrous and far more marvellous. In their case Fate and Fortunecame down on them unawares. but I drew down destiny upon my ownhead and brought sorrow on mine own soul, and shaved my own beardand lost my own eye. Hear then