The following story was written down for me in March, 1889, byMiss Frances Perry, of Exeter, N. H., from her recollection of theform in which it was repeated to her by a relative, some fifteen yearsago. It is thought to have been derived from an Irish domestic."The Little Cakeen" is an interesting variant of the tale alreadyprinted in the Journal of American Folk Lore (vol. ii. pp. 60, 217),under the title of " Johnny Cake ."Once upon a time there was a little maneen and a little womaneen.and the little womaneen made a little cakeen and put it in theoven to bake. And the little maneen stood at one side of the oven,and said the little cakeen was done. and the little womaneen stoodat the other side and said it wasn't. And while they were quarrellingabout it, the little cakeen jumped out of the oven and ran off.and the little maneen and the little womaneen ran after it.Pretty soon the little cakeen came to a little pusheen (cat?), and thelittle pusheen said, "Where are you going so fast, little cakeen, onthose little legs of yours?"And the little cakeen said: "I'm running away from the littlemaneen. I'm running away from the little womaneen, and now I'llrun away from you!"So the little pusheen ran after it. Then itcame to a little dogeen, and the little dogeen said, "Where are yougoing so fast, little cakeen, on those little legs of yours?"And the little cakeen said: "I'm running away from the little maneen. I'mrunning away from the little womaneen. I'm running away from thelittle pusheen, and now I'11 run away from you!"So the little dogeen ran after it (and so on, with coween, heneen, owleen, etc.).Then it came to a little foxeen. and the little foxeen said: "Whereare you going so fast, little cakeen, on those little legs of yours?"And the little cakeen answered: "I'm running away from the littlemaneen. I'm running away from the little womaneen. I'm runningaway from the little pusheen. I'm running away from the little dogeen.I'm running away from the little coween. I'm running awayfrom the little heneen. I'm running away from the little owleen(etc., etc.), and now I'll run away from you."But the little foxeen said: " Oh! don't do that, little cakeen. I will show you where to hide."So the little cakeen said, " All right!"So the little foxeen said: "Jump upon my tail." and the little cakeen jumped on his tail.Then the foxeen said: "Jump on my back." and the little cakeen jumped on his back.Then the little foxeen said: "Jump on my head." so the little cakeen jumped on his head.Then the little foxeen said: "Now jump in my mouth."So the little cakeen jumped into his mouth, and he ate it all up!