Once upon a time there lived a youth who was never happy unless he wasprying into something that other people knew nothing about. After he hadlearned to understand the language of birds and beasts, he discoveredaccidentally that a great deal took place under cover of night whichmortal eyes never saw. From that moment he felt he could not rest tillthese hidden secrets were laid bare to him, and he spent his whole timewandering from one wizard to another, begging them to open his eyes,but found none to help him. At length he reached an old magician calledMana, whose learning was greater than that of the rest, and who couldtell him all he wanted to know. But when the old man had listenedattentively to him, he said, warningly:'My son, do not follow after empty knowledge, which will not bring youhappiness, but rather evil. Much is hidden from the eyes of men, becausedid they know everything their hearts would no longer be at peace.Knowledge kills joy, therefore think well what you are doing, or someday you will repent. But if you will not take my advice, then truly Ican show you the secrets of the night. Only you will need more than aman's courage to bear the sight.'He stopped and looked at the young man, who nodded his head, and thenthe wizard continued, 'To morrow night you must go to the place where,once in seven years, the serpent king gives a great feast to his wholecourt. In front of him stands a golden bowl filled with goats' milk,and if you can manage to dip a piece of bread in this milk, and eat itbefore you are obliged to fly, you will understand all the secrets ofthe night that are hidden from other men. It is lucky for you that theserpent king's feast happens to fall this year, otherwise you would havehad long to wait for it. But take care to be quick and bold, or it willbe the worse for you.'The young man thanked the wizard for his counsel, and went his wayfirmly resolved to carry out his purpose, even if he paid for it withhis life. and when night came he set out for a wide, lonely moor, wherethe serpent king held his feast. With sharpened eyes, he looked eagerlyall round him, but could see nothing but a multitude of small hillocks,that lay motionless under the moonlight. He crouched behind a bushfor some time, till he felt that midnight could not be far off, whensuddenly there arose in the middle of the moor a brilliant glow, as ifa star was shining over one of the hillocks. At the same moment all thehillocks began to writhe and to crawl, and from each one came hundredsof serpents and made straight for the glow, where they knew they shouldfind their king. When they reached the hillock where he dwelt, which washigher and broader than the rest, and had a bright light hanging overthe top, they coiled themselves up and waited. The whirr and confusionfrom all the serpent houses were so great that the youth did not dare toadvance one step, but remained where he was, watching intently all thatwent on. but at last he began to take courage, and moved on softly stepby step.What he saw was creepier than creepy, and surpassed all he had everdreamt of. Thousands of snakes, big and little and of every colour, weregathered together in one great cluster round a huge serpent, whose bodywas as thick as a beam, and which had on its head a golden crown, fromwhich the light sprang. Their hissings and darting tongues so terrifiedthe young man that his heart sank, and he felt he should never havecourage to push on to certain death, when suddenly he caught sight ofthe golden bowl in front of the serpent king, and knew that if he lostthis chance it would never come back. So, with his hair standing on endand his blood frozen in his veins, he crept forwards. Oh! what a noiseand a whirr rose afresh among the serpents. Thousands of heads werereared, and tongues were stretched out to sting the intruder to death,but happily for him their bodies were so closely entwined one in theother that they could not disentangle themselves quickly. Like lightninghe seized a bit of bread, dipped it in the bowl, and put it in hismouth, then dashed away as if fire was pursuing him. On he flew as if awhole army of foes were at his heels, and he seemed to hear the noiseof their approach growing nearer and nearer. At length his breath failedhim, and he threw himself almost senseless on the turf. While he laythere dreadful dreams haunted him. He thought that the serpent king withthe fiery crown had twined himself round him, and was crushing out hislife. With a loud shriek he sprang up to do battle with his enemy, whenhe saw that it was rays of the sun which had wakened him. He rubbed hiseyes and looked all round, but nothing could he see of the foes of thepast night, and the moor where he had run into such danger must be atleast a mile away. But it was no dream that he had run hard and far, orthat he had drunk of the magic goats' milk. And when he felt his limbs,and found them whole, his joy was great that he had come through suchperils with a sound skin.After the fatigues and terrors of the night, he lay still till mid day,but he made up his mind he would go that very evening into the forest totry what the goats' milk could really do for him, and if he would now beable to understand all that had been a mystery to him. And once in theforest his doubts were set at rest, for he saw what no mortal eyes hadever seen before. Beneath the trees were golden pavilions, with flags ofsilver all brightly lighted up. He was still wondering why the pavilionswere there, when a noise was heard among the trees, as if the wind hadsuddenly got up, and on all sides beautiful maidens stepped from thetrees into the bright light of the moon. These were the wood nymphs,daughters of the earth mother, who came every night to hold theirdances, in the forest. The young man, watching from his hiding place,wished he had a hundred eyes in his head, for two were not nearly enoughfor the sight before him, the dances lasting till the first streaks ofdawn. Then a silvery veil seemed to be drawn over the ladies, and theyvanished from sight. But the young man remained where he was till thesun was high in the heavens, and then went home.He felt that day to be endless, and counted the minutes till nightshould come, and he might return to the forest. But when at last he gotthere he found neither pavilions nor nymphs, and though he went backmany nights after he never saw them again. Still, he thought about themnight and day, and ceased to care about anything else in the world, andwas sick to the end of his life with longing for that beautiful vision.And that was the way he learned that the wizard had spoken truly when hesaid, 'Blindness is man's highest good.'(Ehstnische Marchen.)