There was once a king in Ireland, and he had three daughters, and verynice princesses they were. And one day, when they and their father werewalking on the lawn, the king began to joke with them, and to ask themwhom they would like to be married to. 'I'll have the king of Ulster fora husband,' says one. 'and I'll have the king of Munster,' says another.'and,' says the youngest, 'I'll have no husband but the Brown Bear ofNorway.' For a nurse of hers used to be telling her of an enchantedprince that she called by that name, and she fell in love with him, andhis name was the first name on her tongue, for the very night before shewas dreaming of him. Well, one laughed, and another laughed, and theyjoked with the princess all the rest of the evening. But that very nightshe woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up witha thousand lamps. the richest carpets were on the floor, and the wallswere covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full ofgrand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams wasthere, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, andtelling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be hisqueen. Well, she hadn't the heart to refuse him, and married they werethe same evening.'Now, my darling,' says he, when they were left by themselves, 'youmust know that I am under enchantment. A sorceress, that had a beautifuldaughter, wished me for her son in law. but the mother got power overme, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form ofa bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me ofher own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.'Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband fromher side, and spent the day very sadly. But as soon as the lamps werelighted in the grand hall, where she was sitting on a sofa covered withsilk, the folding doors flew open, and he was sitting by her side thenext minute. So they spent another happy evening, but he warned her thatwhenever she began to tire of him, or ceased to have faith in him,they would be parted for ever, and he'd be obliged to marry the witch'sdaughter.She got used to find him absent by day, and they spent a happytwelvemonth together, and at last a beautiful little boy was born. andhappy as she was before, she was twice as happy now, for she had herchild to keep her company in the day when she couldn't see her husband.At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child weresitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew aneagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air withhim. She screamed, and was going to throw herself out the window afterhim, but the prince caught her, and looked at her very seriously. Shebethought of what he said soon after their marriage, and she stopped thecries and complaints that were on her tongue. She spent her days verylonely for another twelvemonth, when a beautiful little girl was sent toher. Then she thought to herself she'd have a sharp eye about her thistime. so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inchesopen.But all her care was in vain. Another evening, when they were all sohappy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stoodbefore them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out ofthe door before you could wink. This time she shouted and ran out ofthe room, but there were some of the servants in the next room, and alldeclared that neither child nor dog passed out. She felt, somehow, as ifit was her husband's fault, but still she kept command over herself, anddidn't once reproach him.When the third child was born she would hardly allow a window or a doorto be left open for a moment. but she wasn't the nearer to keep thechild to herself. They were sitting one evening by the fire, when alady appeared standing by them. The princess opened her eyes in a greatfright and stared at her, and while she was doing so, the lady wrappeda shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father's lap, and eithersank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney.This time the mother kept her bed for a month.'My dear,' said she to her husband, when she was beginning to recover,'I think I'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother andsisters once more. If you give me leave to go home for a few days I'dbe glad.' 'Very well,' said he, 'I will do that, and whenever you feelinclined to return, only mention your wish when you lie down at night.'The next morning when she awoke she found herself in her own old chamberin her father's palace. She rang the bell, and in a short time she hadher mother and father and married sisters about her, and they laughedtill they cried for joy at finding her safe back again.In time she told them all that had happened to her, and they didn't knowwhat to advise her to do. She was as fond of her husband as ever, andsaid she was sure that he couldn't help letting the children go. butstill she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn fromher. Well, the mother and sisters consulted a wise woman that used tobring eggs to the castle, for they had great faith in her wisdom. Shesaid the only plan was to secure the bear's skin that the prince wasobliged to put on every morning, and get it burned, and then he couldn'thelp being a man night and day, and the enchantment would be at an end.So they all persuaded her to do that, and she promised she would. andafter eight days she felt so great a longing to see her husband againthat she made the wish the same night, and when she woke three hoursafter, she was in her husband's palace, and he himself was watching overher. There was great joy on both sides, and they were happy for manydays.Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her inthe morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweetdrink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed.One night she contrived not to drink any of it, though she pretended todo so. and she was wakeful enough in the morning, and saw her husbandpassing out through a panel in the wainscot, though she kept her eyelidsnearly closed. The next night she got a few drops of the sleepy possetthat she saved the evening before put into her husband's night drink,and that made him sleep sound enough. She got up after midnight, passedthrough the panel, and found a Beautiful brown bear's hide hanging inthe corner. Then she stole back, and went down to the parlour fire, andput the hide into the middle of it till it was all fine ashes. She thenlay down by her husband, gave him a kiss on the cheek, and fell asleep.If she was to live a hundred years she'd never forget how she wakenednext morning, and found her husband looking down on her with misery andanger in his face. 'Unhappy woman,' said he, 'you have separated us forever! Why hadn't you patience for five years? I am now obliged, whetherI like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, andmarry her daughter. The skin that was my guard you have burned it, andthe egg wife that gave you the counsel was the witch herself. I won'treproach you: your punishment will be severe without it. Farewell forever!'He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walkingas fast as he could. She shouted after him, and then seeing there was nouse, she dressed herself and pursued him. He never stopped, nor stayed,nor looked back, and still she kept him in sight. and when he was on thehill she was in the hollow, and when he was in the hollow she was onthe hill. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun wassetting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. She crawledup after him, and when she got inside there was a beautiful little boyon his knees, and he kissing and hugging him. 'Here, my poor darling,'says he, 'is your eldest child, and there,' says he, pointing to a womanthat was looking on with a smile on her face, 'is the eagle that carriedhim away.' She forgot all her sorrows in a moment, hugging her child,and laughing and crying over him. The woman washed their feet, andrubbed them with an ointment that took all the soreness out of theirbones, and made them as fresh as a daisy. Next morning, just beforesunrise, he was up, and prepared to be off, 'Here,' said he to her, 'isa thing which may be of use to you. It's a scissors, and whatever stuffyou cut with it will be turned into silk. The moment the sun rises, I'lllose all memory of yourself and the children, but I'll get it at sunsetagain. Farewell!' But he wasn't far gone till she was in sight of himagain, leaving her boy behind. It was the same to day as yesterday:their shadows went before them in the morning and followed them in theevening. He never stopped, and she never stopped, and as the sun wassetting he turned up another lane, and there they found their littledaughter. It was all joy and comfort again till morning, and then thethird day's journey commenced.But before he started he gave her a comb, and told her that whenever sheused it, pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair. Still he had hismemory from sunset to sunrise. but from sunrise to sunset he travelledon under the charm, and never threw his eye behind. This night theycame to where the youngest baby was, and the next morning, just beforesunrise, the prince spoke to her for the last time. 'Here, my poorwife,' said he, 'is a little hand reel, with gold thread that has noend, and the half of our marriage ring. If you ever get to my house,and put your half ring to mine, I shall recollect you. There is a woodyonder, and the moment I enter it I shall forget everything that everhappened between us, just as if I was born yesterday. Farewell, dearwife and child, for ever!' Just then the sun rose, and away he walkedtowards the wood. She saw it open before him and close after him, andwhen she came up, she could no more get in than she could breakthrough a stone wall. She wrung her hands and shed tears, but then sherecollected herself, and cried out, 'Wood, I charge you by my threemagic gifts, the scissors, the comb, and the reel to let me through'.and it opened, and she went along a walk till she came in sight of apalace, and a lawn, and a woodman's cottage on the edge of the woodwhere it came nearest the palace.She went into the lodge, and asked the woodman and his wife to take herinto their service. They were not willing at first. but she told themshe would ask no wages, and would give them diamonds, and pearls, andsilk stuffs, and gold thread whenever they wished for them, and thenthey agreed to let her stay.It wasn't long till she heard how a young prince, that was just arrived,was living in the palace of the young mistress. He seldom stirredabroad, and every one that saw him remarked how silent and sorrowful hewent about, like a person that was searching for some lost thing.The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take noticeof the beautiful young woman at the lodge, and to annoy her with theirimpudence. The head footman was the most troublesome, and at last sheinvited him to come and take tea with her. Oh, how rejoiced he was, andhow he bragged of it in the servants' hall! Well, the evening came, andthe footman walked into the lodge, and was shown to her sitting room.for the lodge keeper and his wife stood in great awe of her, and gaveher two nice rooms for herself. Well, he sat down as stiff as a ramrod,and was talking in a grand style about the great doings at the castle,while she was getting the tea and toast ready. 'Oh,' says she to him,'would you put your hand out at the window and cut me off a sprig or twoof honeysuckle?' He got up in great glee, and put out his hand and head.and said she, 'By the virtue of my magic gifts, let a pair of hornsspring out of your head, and sing to the lodge.' Just as she wished, soit was. They sprung from the front of each ear, and met at the back. Oh,the poor wretch! And how he bawled and roared! and the servants that heused to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle, and grinning,and huzzaing, and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans. and hecursing and swearing, and the eyes ready to start out of his head, andhe so black in the face, and kicking out his legs behind him like mad.At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns droppeddown on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only hewas as weak as water, and his fellow servants came in and carried him upto the big house. Well, some way or other the story came to the ears ofthe prince, and he strolled down that way. She had only the dress of acountrywoman on her as she sat sewing at the window, but that did nothide her beauty, and he was greatly puzzled after he had a good look,just as a body is puzzled to know whether something happened to him whenhe was young or if he only dreamed it. Well, the witch's daughter heardabout it too, and she came to see the strange girl. and what did shefind her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper.and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Thewitch's daughter looked on with greedy eyes, and, says she, 'What wouldyou be satisfied to take for that scissors?' 'I'll take nothing,' saysshe, 'but leave to spend one night outside the prince's chamber.' Well,the proud lady fired up, and was going to say something dreadful. butthe scissors kept on cutting, and the silk growing richer and richerevery inch. So she promised what the girl had asked her.When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till theprince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him.She sung this verse to him, sighing and sobbing, and kept singing it thenight long, and it was all in vain:Four long years I was married to thee. Three sweet babes I bore to thee.Brown Bear of Norway, turn to me.At the first dawn the proud lady was in the chamber, and led her away,and the footman of the horns put out his tongue at her as she wasquitting the palace.So there was no luck so far. but the next day the prince passed by againand looked at her, and saluted her kindly, as a prince might a farmer'sdaughter, and passed one. and soon the witch's daughter passed by, andfound her combing her hair, and pearls and diamonds dropping from it.Well, another bargain was made, and the princess spent another night ofsorrow, and she left the castle at daybreak, and the footman was at hispost and enjoyed his revenge.The third day the prince went by, and stopped to talk with the strangewoman. He asked her could he do anything to serve her, and she said hemight. She asked him did he ever wake at night. He said that he oftendid, but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweetsong in his dreams, and could not wake, and that the voice was one thathe must have known and loved in some other world long ago. Says she,'Did you drink any sleepy posset either of these evenings before youwent to bed?' 'I did,' said he. 'The two evenings my wife gave mesomething to drink, but I don't know whether it was a sleepy posset ornot.' 'Well, prince,' said she, 'as you say you would wish to oblige me,you can do it by not tasting any drink to night.' 'I will not,' says he,and then he went on his walk.Well, the great lady came soon after the prince, and found the strangerusing her hand reel and winding threads of gold off it, and the thirdbargain was made.That evening the prince was lying on his bed at twilight, and his mindmuch disturbed. and the door opened, and in his princess walked, anddown she sat by his bedside and sung:Four long years I was married to thee. Three sweet babes I bore to thee.Brown Bear of Norway, turn to me.'Brown Bear of Norway!' said he. 'I don't understand you.' 'Don't youremember, prince, that I was your wedded wife for four years?' 'I donot,' said he, 'but I'm sure I wish it was so.' 'Don't you remember ourthree babes that are still alive?' 'Show me them. My mind is all a heapof confusion.' 'Look for the half of our marriage ring, that hangs atyour neck, and fit it to this.' He did so, and the same moment the charmwas broken. His full memory came back on him, and he flung his armsround his wife's neck, and both burst into tears.Well, there was a great cry outside, and the castle walls were heardsplitting and cracking. Everyone in the castle was alarmed, and madetheir way out. The prince and princess went with the rest, and by thetime all were safe on the lawn, down came the building, and made theground tremble for miles round. No one ever saw the witch and herdaughter afterwards. It was not long till the prince and princess hadtheir children with them, and then they set out for their own palace.The kings of Ireland and of Munster and Ulster, and their wives, sooncame to visit them, and may every one that deserves it be as happy asthe Brown Bear of Norway and his family.From 'West Highland Tales.'