This story was actually made up, young ones, but it really is true, formy grandfather, who told it to me, always said whenever he told it, "itmust be true, my son, otherwise it couldn't be told." Anyway, this is howthe story goes:It was on a Sunday morning at harvest time, just when the buckwheat wasin bloom. The sun was shining bright in the heaven, the morning wind wasblowing warmly across the stubble, the larks were singing in the air, thebees were buzzing in the buckwheat, and the people in their Sunday bestwere on their way to church, and all the creatures were happy, includingthe hedgehog.The hedgehog was standing before his door with his arms crossed,humming a little song to himself, neither better nor worse than hedgehogsusually sing on a nice Sunday morning. Singing there to himself, halfsilently, it suddenly occurred to him that while his wife was washing anddrying the children, he could take a little walk into the field and seehow his turnips were doing. The turnips were close by his house, and heand his family were accustomed to eating them, so he considered them hisown.No sooner said than done. The hedgehog closed the house door behind himand started down the path to the field. He hadn't gone very far away fromhis house at all, only as far as the blackthorn bush which stands at thefront of the field, near the turnip patch, when he met up with the hare,who had gone out for a similar purpose, namely to examine his cabbage.When the hedgehog saw the hare, he wished him a friendly good morning.The hare, however, who was in his own way a distinguished gentleman, andterribly arrogant about it, did not answer the hedgehog's greeting, butinstead said to the hedgehog, in a terribly sarcastic manner, "How is itthat you are running around in the field so early in the morning?""I'm taking a walk," said the hedgehog."Taking a walk?" laughed the hare. "I should think that you couldbetter use your legs for other purposes."This answer made the hedgehog terribly angry, for he could standanything except remarks about his legs, for by nature they werecrooked."Do you imagine," said the hedgehog to the hare, "that you canaccomplish more with your legs?""I should think so," said the hare."That would depend on the situation," said the hedgehog. "I bet, if wewere to run a race, I'd pass you up.""That is a laugh! You with your crooked legs!" said the hare. "But forall I care, let it be, if you are so eager. What will we wager?""A gold louis d'or and a bottle of brandy," said the hedgehog."Accepted," said the hare. "Shake hands, and we can take rightoff.""No, I'm not in such a hurry," said the hedgehog. "I'm very hungry.First I want to go home and eat a little breakfast. I'll be back here atthis spot in a half hour."The hare was agreeable with this, and the hedgehog left.On his way home the hedgehog thought to himself, "The hare is relyingon his long legs, but I'll still beat him. He may well be a distinguishedgentleman, but he's still a fool, and he'll be the one to pay."Arriving home, he said to his wife, "Wife, get dressed quickly. You'vegot to go out to the field with me.""What's the matter?" said his wife."I bet a gold louis d'or and a bottle of brandy with the hare that Icould beat him in a race, and you should be there too.""My God, man," the hedgehog's wife began to cry, "are you mad? Have youentirely lost your mind? How can you agree to run a race with thehare?""Hold your mouth, woman," said the hedgehog. "This is my affair. Don'tget mixed up in men's business. Hurry up now, get dressed, and come withme."What was the hedgehog's wife to do? She had to obey, whether she wantedto or not.As they walked toward the field together, the hedgehog said to hiswife, "Now pay attention to what I tell you. You see, we are going to runthe race down the long field. The hare will run in one furrow and I inanother one. We'll begin running from up there. All you have to do is tostand here in the furrow, and when the hare approaches from the otherside, just call out to him, 'I'm already here.'"With that they arrived at the field, the hedgehog showed his wife herplace, then he went to the top of the field. When he arrived the hare wasalready there."Can we start?" said the hare."Yes, indeed," said the hedgehog. "On your mark!" And each one took hisplace in his furrow.The hare counted "One, two, three," and he tore down the field like awindstorm. But the hedgehog ran only about three steps and then duckeddown in the furrow and remained there sitting quietly.When the hare, in full run, arrived at the bottom of the field, thehedgehog's wife called out to him, "I'm already here!"The hare, startled and bewildered, thought it was the hedgehog himself,for as everyone knows, a hedgehog's wife looks just like her husband.The hare thought, "Something's not right here." He called out, "Let'srun back again!" And he took off again like a windstorm, with his earsflying from his head. But the hedgehog's wife remained quietly inplace.When the hare arrived at the top, the hedgehog called out to him, "I'malready here!"The hare, beside himself with excitement, shouted, "Let's run backagain!""It's all right with me," answered the hedgehog. "For all I care, asoften as you want."So the hare ran seventy three more times, and the hedgehog always keptup with him. Each time the hare arrived at the top or the bottom of thefield, the hedgehog or his wife said, "I am already here!"But the hare did not complete the seventy fourth time. In the middle ofthe field, with blood flowing from his neck, he fell dead to theground.The hedgehog took the gold louis d'or and the bottle of brandy he hadwon, called his wife from her furrow, and happily they went back home.And if they have not died, then they are still alive.Thus it happened that the hedgehog ran the hare to death on theBuxtehude Heath, and since that time no hare has agreed to enter a racewith a hedgehog.The moral of this story is, first, that no one, however distinguishedhe thinks himself, should make fun of a lesser man, even if this man is ahedgehog. And second, when a man marries, it is recommended that he take awife from his own class, one who looks just like him. In other words, ahedgehog should always take care that his wife is also a hedgehog, and soforth.