Poor John was very sad. for his father was so ill, he had nohope of his recovery. John sat alone with the sick man in the littleroom, and the lamp had nearly burnt out. for it was late in the night."You have been a good son, John," said the sick father, "and Godwill help you on in the world." He looked at him, as he spoke, withmild, earnest eyes, drew a deep sigh, and died. yet it appeared asif he still slept.John wept bitterly. He had no one in the wide world now. neitherfather, mother, brother, nor sister. Poor John! he knelt down by thebed, kissed his dead father's hand, and wept many, many bittertears. But at last his eyes closed, and he fell asleep with his headresting against the hard bedpost. Then he dreamed a strange dream.he thought he saw the sun shining upon him, and his father alive andwell, and even heard him laughing as he used to do when he was veryhappy. A beautiful girl, with a golden crown on her head, and long,shining hair, gave him her hand. and his father said, "See what abride you have won. She is the loveliest maiden on the whole earth."Then he awoke, and all the beautiful things vanished before hiseyes, his father lay dead on the bed, and he was all alone. Poor John!During the following week the dead man was buried. The sonwalked behind the coffin which contained his father, whom he so dearlyloved, and would never again behold. He heard the earth fall on thecoffin lid, and watched it till only a corner remained in sight, andat last that also disappeared. He felt as if his heart would breakwith its weight of sorrow, till those who stood round the grave sang apsalm, and the sweet, holy tones brought tears into his eyes, whichrelieved him. The sun shone brightly down on the green trees, as if itwould say, "You must not be so sorrowful, John. Do you see thebeautiful blue sky above you? Your father is up there, and he prays tothe loving Father of all, that you may do well in the future.""I will always be good," said John, "and then I shall go to bewith my father in heaven. What joy it will be when we see each otheragain! How much I shall have to relate to him, and how many thingshe will be able to explain to me of the delights of heaven, andteach me as he once did on earth. Oh, what joy it will be!"He pictured it all so plainly to himself, that he smiled evenwhile the tears ran down his cheeks.The little birds in the chestnut trees twittered, "Tweet,tweet." they were so happy, although they had seen the funeral. butthey seemed as if they knew that the dead man was now in heaven, andthat he had wings much larger and more beautiful than their own. andhe was happy now, because he had been good here on earth, and theywere glad of it. John saw them fly away out of the green trees intothe wide world, and he longed to fly with them. but first he cut out alarge wooden cross, to place on his father's grave. and when hebrought it there in the evening, he found the grave decked out withgravel and flowers. Strangers had done this. they who had known thegood old father who was now dead, and who had loved him very much.Early the next morning, John packed up his little bundle ofclothes, and placed all his money, which consisted of fifty dollarsand a few shillings, in his girdle. with this he determined to try hisfortune in the world. But first he went into the churchyard. and, byhis father's grave, he offered up a prayer, and said, "Farewell."As he passed through the fields, all the flowers looked freshand beautiful in the warm sunshine, and nodded in the wind, as if theywished to say, "Welcome to the green wood, where all is fresh andbright."Then John turned to have one more look at the old church, in whichhe had been christened in his infancy, and where his father hadtaken him every Sunday to hear the service and join in singing thepsalms. As he looked at the old tower, he espied the ringer standingat one of the narrow openings, with his little pointed red cap onhis head, and shading his eyes from the sun with his bent arm. Johnnodded farewell to him, and the little ringer waved his red cap,laid his hand on his heart, and kissed his hand to him a great manytimes, to show that he felt kindly towards him, and wished him aprosperous journey.John continued his journey, and thought of all the wonderfulthings he should see in the large, beautiful world, till he foundhimself farther away from home than ever he had been before. He didnot even know the names of the places he passed through, and couldscarcely understand the language of the people he met, for he wasfar away, in a strange land. The first night he slept on a haystack,out in the fields, for there was no other bed for him. but it seemedto him so nice and comfortable that even a king need not wish for abetter. The field, the brook, the haystack, with the blue sky above,formed a beautiful sleeping room. The green grass, with the little redand white flowers, was the carpet. the elder bushes and the hedgesof wild roses looked like garlands on the walls. and for a bath hecould have the clear, fresh water of the brook. while the rushes bowedtheir heads to him, to wish him good morning and good evening. Themoon, like a large lamp, hung high up in the blue ceiling, and hehad no fear of its setting fire to his curtains. John slept here quitesafely all night. and when he awoke, the sun was up, and all thelittle birds were singing round him, "Good morning, good morning.Are you not up yet?"It was Sunday, and the bells were ringing for church. As thepeople went in, John followed them. he heard God's word, joined insinging the psalms, and listened to the preacher. It seemed to himjust as if he were in his own church, where he had been christened,and had sung the psalms with his father. Out in the churchyard wereseveral graves, and on some of them the grass had grown very high.John thought of his father's grave, which he knew at last would looklike these, as he was not there to weed and attend to it. Then heset to work, pulled up the high grass, raised the wooden crosses whichhad fallen down, and replaced the wreaths which had been blown awayfrom their places by the wind, thinking all the time, "Perhaps someone is doing the same for my father's grave, as I am not there to doit."Outside the church door stood an old beggar, leaning on hiscrutch. John gave him his silver shillings, and then he continuedhis journey, feeling lighter and happier than ever. Towards evening,the weather became very stormy, and he hastened on as quickly as hecould, to get shelter. but it was quite dark by the time he reacheda little lonely church which stood on a hill. "I will go in here,"he said, "and sit down in a corner. for I am quite tired, and wantrest."So he went in, and seated himself. then he folded his hands, andoffered up his evening prayer, and was soon fast asleep anddreaming, while the thunder rolled and the lightning flashedwithout. When he awoke, it was still night. but the storm hadceased, and the moon shone in upon him through the windows. Then hesaw an open coffin standing in the centre of the church, whichcontained a dead man, waiting for burial. John was not at all timid.he had a good conscience, and he knew also that the dead can neverinjure any one. It is living wicked men who do harm to others. Twosuch wicked persons stood now by the dead man, who had been brought tothe church to be buried. Their evil intentions were to throw thepoor dead body outside the church door, and not leave him to rest inhis coffin."Why do you do this?" asked John, when he saw what they were goingto do. "it is very wicked. Leave him to rest in peace, in Christ'sname.""Nonsense," replied the two dreadful men. "He has cheated us. heowed us money which he could not pay, and now he is dead we shallnot get a penny. so we mean to have our revenge, and let him lielike a dog outside the church door.""I have only fifty dollars," said John, "it is all I possess inthe world, but I will give it to you if you will promise me faithfullyto leave the dead man in peace. I shall be able to get on withoutthe money. I have strong and healthy limbs, and God will always helpme.""Why, of course," said the horrid men, "if you will pay his debtwe will both promise not to touch him. You may depend upon that."and then they took the money he offered them, laughed at him for hisgood nature, and went their way.Then he laid the dead body back in the coffin, folded the hands,and took leave of it. and went away contentedly through the greatforest. All around him he could see the prettiest little elves dancingin the moonlight, which shone through the trees. They were notdisturbed by his appearance, for they knew he was good and harmlessamong men. They are wicked people only who can never obtain aglimpse of fairies. Some of them were not taller than the breadth of afinger, and they wore golden combs in their long, yellow hair. Theywere rocking themselves two together on the large dew drops with whichthe leaves and the high grass were sprinkled. Sometimes thedew drops would roll away, and then they fell down between the stemsof the long grass, and caused a great deal of laughing and noise amongthe other little people. It was quite charming to watch them atplay. Then they sang songs, and John remembered that he had learntthose pretty songs when he was a little boy. Large speckled spiders,with silver crowns on their heads, were employed to spin suspensionbridges and palaces from one hedge to another, and when the tiny dropsfell upon them, they glittered in the moonlight like shining glass.This continued till sunrise. Then the little elves crept into theflower buds, and the wind seized the bridges and palaces, andfluttered them in the air like cobwebs.As John left the wood, a strong man's voice called after him,"Hallo, comrade, where are you travelling?""Into the wide world," he replied. "I am only a poor lad, I haveneither father nor mother, but God will help me.""I am going into the wide world also," replied the stranger."shall we keep each other company?""With all my heart," he said, and so they went on together. Soonthey began to like each other very much, for they were both good.but John found out that the stranger was much more clever thanhimself. He had travelled all over the world, and could describealmost everything. The sun was high in the heavens when they seatedthemselves under a large tree to eat their breakfast, and at thesame moment an old woman came towards them. She was very old andalmost bent double. She leaned upon a stick and carried on her backa bundle of firewood, which she had collected in the forest. her apronwas tied round it, and John saw three great stems of fern and somewillow twigs peeping out. Just as she came close up to them, herfoot slipped and she fell to the ground screaming loudly. poor oldwoman, she had broken her leg! John proposed directly that they shouldcarry the old woman home to her cottage. but the stranger opened hisknapsack and took out a box, in which he said he had a salve thatwould quickly make her leg well and strong again, so that she would beable to walk home herself, as if her leg had never been broken. Andall that he would ask in return was the three fern stems which shecarried in her apron."That is rather too high a price," said the old woman, nodding herhead quite strangely. She did not seem at all inclined to part withthe fern stems. However, it was not very agreeable to lie there with abroken leg, so she gave them to him. and such was the power of theointment, that no sooner had he rubbed her leg with it than the oldmother rose up and walked even better than she had done before. Butthen this wonderful ointment could not be bought at a chemist's."What can you want with those three fern rods?" asked John ofhis fellow traveller."Oh, they will make capital brooms," said he. "and I like thembecause I have strange whims sometimes." Then they walked ontogether for a long distance."How dark the sky is becoming," said John. "and look at thosethick, heavy clouds.""Those are not clouds," replied his fellow traveller. "they aremountains large lofty mountains on the tops of which we should beabove the clouds, in the pure, free air. Believe me, it isdelightful to ascend so high, tomorrow we shall be there." But themountains were not so near as they appeared. they had to travel awhole day before they reached them, and pass through black forests andpiles of rock as large as a town. The journey had been so fatiguingthat John and his fellow traveller stopped to rest at a roadsideinn, so that they might gain strength for their journey on the morrow.In the large public room of the inn a great many persons wereassembled to see a comedy performed by dolls. The showman had justerected his little theatre, and the people were sitting round the roomto witness the performance. Right in front, in the very best place,sat a stout butcher, with a great bull dog by his side who seemed verymuch inclined to bite. He sat staring with all his eyes, and so indeeddid every one else in the room. And then the play began. It was apretty piece, with a king and a queen in it, who sat on a beautifulthrone, and had gold crowns on their heads. The trains to theirdresses were very long, according to the fashion. while theprettiest of wooden dolls, with glass eyes and large mustaches,stood at the doors, and opened and shut them, that the fresh air mightcome into the room. It was a very pleasant play, not at allmournful. but just as the queen stood up and walked across thestage, the great bull dog, who should have been held back by hismaster, made a spring forward, and caught the queen in the teeth bythe slender wrist, so that it snapped in two. This was a very dreadfuldisaster. The poor man, who was exhibiting the dolls, was muchannoyed, and quite sad about his queen. she was the prettiest dollhe had, and the bull dog had broken her head and shoulders off. Butafter all the people were gone away, the stranger, who came with John,said that he could soon set her to rights. And then he brought out hisbox and rubbed the doll with some of the salve with which he had curedthe old woman when she broke her leg. As soon as this was done thedoll's back became quite right again. her head and shoulders werefixed on, and she could even move her limbs herself: there was nowno occasion to pull the wires, for the doll acted just like a livingcreature, excepting that she could not speak. The man to whom the showbelonged was quite delighted at having a doll who could dance ofherself without being pulled by the wires. none of the other dollscould do this.During the night, when all the people at the inn were gone to bed,some one was heard to sigh so deeply and painfully, and the sighingcontinued for so long a time, that every one got up to see whatcould be the matter. The showman went at once to his little theatreand found that it proceeded from the dolls, who all lay on the floorsighing piteously, and staring with their glass eyes. they allwanted to be rubbed with the ointment, so that, like the queen, theymight be able to move of themselves. The queen threw herself on herknees, took off her beautiful crown, and, holding it in her hand,cried, "Take this from me, but do rub my husband and his courtiers."The poor man who owned the theatre could scarcely refrain fromweeping. he was so sorry that he could not help them. Then heimmediately spoke to John's comrade, and promised him all the money hemight receive at the next evening's performance, if he would onlyrub the ointment on four or five of his dolls. But the fellow travellersaid he did not require anything in return, excepting the swordwhich the showman wore by his side. As soon as he received thesword he anointed six of the dolls with the ointment, and theywere able immediately to dance so gracefully that all the living girlsin the room could not help joining in the dance. The coachman dancedwith the cook, and the waiters with the chambermaids, and all thestrangers joined. even the tongs and the fire shovel made anattempt, but they fell down after the first jump. So after all itwas a very merry night. The next morning John and his companion leftthe inn to continue their journey through the great pine forests andover the high mountains. They arrived at last at such a great heightthat towns and villages lay beneath them, and the church steepleslooked like little specks between the green trees. They could seefor miles round, far away to places they had never visited, and Johnsaw more of the beautiful world than he had ever known before. The sunshone brightly in the blue firmament above, and through the clearmountain air came the sound of the huntsman's horn, and the soft,sweet notes brought tears into his eyes, and he could not helpexclaiming, "How good and loving God is to give us all this beauty andloveliness in the world to make us happy!"His fellow traveller stood by with folded hands, gazing on thedark wood and the towns bathed in the warm sunshine. At this momentthere sounded over their heads sweet music. They looked up, anddiscovered a large white swan hovering in the air, and singing asnever bird sang before. But the song soon became weaker and weaker,the bird's head drooped, and he sunk slowly down, and lay dead attheir feet."It is a beautiful bird," said the traveller, "and these largewhite wings are worth a great deal of money. I will take them with me.You see now that a sword will be very useful."So he cut off the wings of the dead swan with one blow, andcarried them away with him.They now continued their journey over the mountains for manymiles, till they at length reached a large city, containing hundredsof towers, that shone in the sunshine like silver. In the midst of thecity stood a splendid marble palace, roofed with pure red gold, inwhich dwelt the king. John and his companion would not go into thetown immediately. so they stopped at an inn outside the town, tochange their clothes. for they wished to appear respectable as theywalked through the streets. The landlord told them that the king was avery good man, who never injured any one: but as to his daughter,"Heaven defend us!"She was indeed a wicked princess. She possessed beauty enough nobodycould be more elegant or prettier than she was. but what ofthat? for she was a wicked witch. and in consequence of her conductmany noble young princes had lost their lives. Any one was atliberty to make her an offer. were he a prince or a beggar, itmattered not to her. She would ask him to guess three things which shehad just thought of, and if he succeed, he was to marry her, and beking over all the land when her father died. but if he could not guessthese three things, then she ordered him to be hanged or to have hishead cut off. The old king, her father, was very much grieved at herconduct, but he could not prevent her from being so wicked, because heonce said he would have nothing more to do with her lovers. shemight do as she pleased. Each prince who came and tried the threeguesses, so that he might marry the princess, had been unable tofind them out, and had been hanged or beheaded. They had all beenwarned in time, and might have left her alone, if they would. Theold king became at last so distressed at all these dreadfulcircumstances, that for a whole day every year he and his soldiersknelt and prayed that the princess might become good. but shecontinued as wicked as ever. The old women who drank brandy wouldcolor it quite black before they drank it, to show how they mourned.and what more could they do?"What a horrible princess!" said John. "she ought to be wellflogged. If I were the old king, I would have her punished in someway."Just then they heard the people outside shouting, "Hurrah!" and,looking out, they saw the princess passing by. and she was really sobeautiful that everybody forgot her wickedness, and shouted"Hurrah!" Twelve lovely maidens in white silk dresses, holdinggolden tulips in their hands, rode by her side on coal black horses.The princess herself had a snow white steed, decked with diamondsand rubies. Her dress was of cloth of gold, and the whip she held inher hand looked like a sunbeam. The golden crown on her head glitteredlike the stars of heaven, and her mantle was formed of thousands ofbutterflies' wings sewn together. Yet she herself was more beautifulthan all.When John saw her, his face became as red as a drop of blood,and he could scarcely utter a word. The princess looked exactly likethe beautiful lady with the golden crown, of whom he had dreamed onthe night his father died. She appeared to him so lovely that he couldnot help loving her."It could not be true," he thought, "that she was really awicked witch, who ordered people to be hanged or beheaded, if theycould not guess her thoughts. Every one has permission to go and askher hand, even the poorest beggar. I shall pay a visit to the palace,"he said. "I must go, for I cannot help myself."Then they all advised him not to attempt it. for he would besure to share the same fate as the rest. His fellow traveller alsotried to persuade him against it. but John seemed quite sure ofsuccess. He brushed his shoes and his coat, washed his face and hishands, combed his soft flaxen hair, and then went out alone into thetown, and walked to the palace."Come in," said the king, as John knocked at the door. John openedit, and the old king, in a dressing gown and embroidered slippers,came towards him. He had the crown on his head, carried his sceptre inone hand, and the orb in the other. "Wait a bit," said he, and heplaced the orb under his arm, so that he could offer the other hand toJohn. but when he found that John was another suitor, he began to weepso violently, that both the sceptre and the orb fell to the floor, andhe was obliged to wipe his eyes with his dressing gown. Poor old king!"Let her alone," he said. "you will fare as badly as all the others.Come, I will show you." Then he led him out into the princess'spleasure gardens, and there he saw a frightful sight. On every treehung three or four king's sons who had wooed the princess, but had notbeen able to guess the riddles she gave them. Their skeletonsrattled in every breeze, so that the terrified birds never dared toventure into the garden. All the flowers were supported by human bonesinstead of sticks, and human skulls in the flower pots grinnedhorribly. It was really a doleful garden for a princess. "Do you seeall this?" said the old king. "your fate will be the same as those whoare here, therefore do not attempt it. You really make me veryunhappy, I take these things to heart so very much."John kissed the good old king's hand, and said he was sure itwould be all right, for he was quite enchanted with the beautifulprincess. Then the princess herself came riding into the palace yardwith all her ladies, and he wished her "Good morning." She lookedwonderfully fair and lovely when she offered her hand to John, andhe loved her more than ever. How could she be a wicked witch, as allthe people asserted? He accompanied her into the hall, and thelittle pages offered them gingerbread nuts and sweetmeats, but the oldking was so unhappy he could eat nothing, and besides, gingerbreadnuts were too hard for him. It was decided that John should come tothe palace the next day, when the judges and the whole of thecounsellors would be present, to try if he could guess the firstriddle. If he succeeded, he would have to come a second time. but ifnot, he would lose his life, and no one had ever been able to guesseven one. However, John was not at all anxious about the result of histrial. on the contrary, he was very merry. He thought only of thebeautiful princess, and believed that in some way he should have help,but how he knew not, and did not like to think about it. so hedanced along the high road as he went back to the inn, where he hadleft his fellow traveller waiting for him. John could not refrain fromtelling him how gracious the princess had been, and how beautifulshe looked. He longed for the next day so much, that he might go tothe palace and try his luck at guessing the riddles. But his comradeshook his head, and looked very mournful. "I do so wish you to dowell," said he. "we might have continued together much longer, and nowI am likely to lose you. you poor dear John! I could shed tears, but Iwill not make you unhappy on the last night we may be together. Wewill be merry, really merry this evening. to morrow, after you aregone, shall be able to weep undisturbed."It was very quickly known among the inhabitants of the town thatanother suitor had arrived for the princess, and there was greatsorrow in consequence. The theatre remained closed, the women who soldsweetmeats tied crape round the sugar sticks, and the king and thepriests were on their knees in the church. There was a greatlamentation, for no one expected John to succeed better than those whohad been suitors before.In the evening John's comrade prepared a large bowl of punch,and said, "Now let us be merry, and drink to the health of theprincess." But after drinking two glasses, John became so sleepy, thathe could not keep his eyes open, and fell fast asleep. Then hisfellow traveller lifted him gently out of his chair, and laid him onthe bed. and as soon as it was quite dark, he took the two large wingswhich he had cut from the dead swan, and tied them firmly to his ownshoulders. Then he put into his pocket the largest of the three rodswhich he had obtained from the old woman who had fallen and broken herleg. After this he opened the window, and flew away over the town,straight towards the palace, and seated himself in a corner, under thewindow which looked into the bedroom of the princess.The town was perfectly still when the clocks struck a quarter totwelve. Presently the window opened, and the princess, who had largeblack wings to her shoulders, and a long white mantle, flew awayover the city towards a high mountain. The fellow traveller, who hadmade himself invisible, so that she could not possibly see him, flewafter her through the air, and whipped the princess with his rod, sothat the blood came whenever he struck her. Ah, it was a strangeflight through the air! The wind caught her mantle, so that itspread out on all sides, like the large sail of a ship, and the moonshone through it. "How it hails, to be sure!" said the princess, ateach blow she received from the rod. and it served her right to bewhipped.At last she reached the side of the mountain, and knocked. Themountain opened with a noise like the roll of thunder, and theprincess went in. The traveller followed her. no one could see him, ashe had made himself invisible. They went through a long, wide passage.A thousand gleaming spiders ran here and there on the walls, causingthem to glitter as if they were illuminated with fire. They nextentered a large hall built of silver and gold. Large red and blueflowers shone on the walls, looking like sunflowers in size, but noone could dare to pluck them, for the stems were hideous poisonoussnakes, and the flowers were flames of fire, darting out of theirjaws. Shining glow worms covered the ceiling, and sky blue batsflapped their transparent wings. Altogether the place had afrightful appearance. In the middle of the floor stood a thronesupported by four skeleton horses, whose harness had been made byfiery red spiders. The throne itself was made of milk white glass, andthe cushions were little black mice, each biting the other's tail.Over it hung a canopy of rose colored spider's webs, spotted withthe prettiest little green flies, which sparkled like precious stones.On the throne sat an old magician with a crown on his ugly head, and asceptre in his hand. He kissed the princess on the forehead, seatedher by his side on the splendid throne, and then the musiccommenced. Great black grasshoppers played the mouth organ, and theowl struck herself on the body instead of a drum. It was altogethera ridiculous concert. Little black goblins with false lights intheir caps danced about the hall. but no one could see thetraveller, and he had placed himself just behind the throne where hecould see and hear everything. The courtiers who came in afterwardslooked noble and grand. but any one with common sense could see whatthey really were, only broomsticks, with cabbages for heads. Themagician had given them life, and dressed them in embroidered robes.It answered very well, as they were only wanted for show. Afterthere had been a little dancing, the princess told the magician thatshe had a new suitor, and asked him what she could think of for thesuitor to guess when he came to the castle the next morning."Listen to what I say," said the magician, "you must choosesomething very easy, he is less likely to guess it then. Think ofone of your shoes, he will never imagine it is that. Then cut his headoff. and mind you do not forget to bring his eyes with you to morrownight, that I may eat them."The princess curtsied low, and said she would not forget the eyes.The magician then opened the mountain and she flew home again, butthe traveller followed and flogged her so much with the rod, thatshe sighed quite deeply about the heavy hail storm, and made as muchhaste as she could to get back to her bedroom through the window.The traveller then returned to the inn where John still slept, tookoff his wings and laid down on the bed, for he was very tired. Earlyin the morning John awoke, and when his fellow traveller got up, hesaid that he had a very wonderful dream about the princess and hershoe, he therefore advised John to ask her if she had not thought ofher shoe. Of course the traveller knew this from what the magicianin the mountain had said."I may as well say that as anything," said John. "Perhaps yourdream may come true. still I will say farewell, for if I guess wrong Ishall never see you again."Then they embraced each other, and John went into the town andwalked to the palace. The great hall was full of people, and thejudges sat in arm chairs, with eider down cushions to rest their headsupon, because they had so much to think of. The old king stood near,wiping his eyes with his white pocket handkerchief. When theprincess entered, she looked even more beautiful than she had appearedthe day before, and greeted every one present most gracefully. butto John she gave her hand, and said, "Good morning to you."Now came the time for John to guess what she was thinking of.and oh, how kindly she looked at him as she spoke. But when he utteredthe single word shoe, she turned as pale as a ghost. all her wisdomcould not help her, for he had guessed rightly. Oh, how pleased theold king was! It was quite amusing to see how he capered about. Allthe people clapped their hands, both on his account and John's, whohad guessed rightly the first time. His fellow traveller was gladalso, when he heard how successful John had been. But John foldedhis hands, and thanked God, who, he felt quite sure, would help himagain. and he knew he had to guess twice more. The evening passedpleasantly like the one preceding. While John slept, his companionflew behind the princess to the mountain, and flogged her evenharder than before. this time he had taken two rods with him. No onesaw him go in with her, and he heard all that was said. The princessthis time was to think of a glove, and he told John as if he had againheard it in a dream. The next day, therefore, he was able to guesscorrectly the second time, and it caused great rejoicing at thepalace. The whole court jumped about as they had seen the king dothe day before, but the princess lay on the sofa, and would not saya single word. All now depended upon John. If he only guessedrightly the third time, he would marry the princess, and reign overthe kingdom after the death of the old king: but if he failed, hewould lose his life, and the magician would have his beautiful blueeyes. That evening John said his prayers and went to bed very early,and soon fell asleep calmly. But his companion tied on his wings tohis shoulders, took three rods, and, with his sword at his side,flew to the palace. It was a very dark night, and so stormy that thetiles flew from the roofs of the houses, and the trees in the gardenupon which the skeletons hung bent themselves like reeds before thewind. The lightning flashed, and the thunder rolled in onelong continued peal all night. The window of the castle opened, andthe princess flew out. She was pale as death, but she laughed at thestorm as if it were not bad enough. Her white mantle fluttered inthe wind like a large sail, and the traveller flogged her with thethree rods till the blood trickled down, and at last she couldscarcely fly. she contrived, however, to reach the mountain. "What ahail storm!" she said, as she entered. "I have never been out insuch weather as this.""Yes, there may be too much of a good thing sometimes," said themagician.Then the princess told him that John had guessed rightly thesecond time, and if he succeeded the next morning, he would win, andshe could never come to the mountain again, or practice magic as shehad done, and therefore she was quite unhappy. "I will find outsomething for you to think of which he will never guess, unless heis a greater conjuror than myself. But now let us be merry."Then he took the princess by both hands, and they danced withall the little goblins and Jack o' lanterns in the room. The redspiders sprang here and there on the walls quite as merrily, and theflowers of fire appeared as if they were throwing out sparks. Theowl beat the drum, the crickets whistled and the grasshoppers playedthe mouth organ. It was a very ridiculous ball. After they haddanced enough, the princess was obliged to go home, for fear sheshould be missed at the palace. The magician offered to go with her,that they might be company to each other on the way. Then they flewaway through the bad weather, and the traveller followed them, andbroke his three rods across their shoulders. The magician had neverbeen out in such a hail storm as this. Just by the palace the magicianstopped to wish the princess farewell, and to whisper in her ear,"To morrow think of my head."But the traveller heard it, and just as the princess slippedthrough the window into her bedroom, and the magician turned roundto fly back to the mountain, he seized him by the long black beard,and with his sabre cut off the wicked conjuror's head just behindthe shoulders, so that he could not even see who it was. He threwthe body into the sea to the fishes, and after dipping the head intothe water, he tied it up in a silk handkerchief, took it with him tothe inn, and then went to bed. The next morning he gave John thehandkerchief, and told him not to untie it till the princess asked himwhat she was thinking of. There were so many people in the greathall of the palace that they stood as thick as radishes tiedtogether in a bundle. The council sat in their arm chairs with thewhite cushions. The old king wore new robes, and the golden crownand sceptre had been polished up so that he looked quite smart. Butthe princess was very pale, and wore a black dress as if she weregoing to a funeral."What have I thought of?" asked the princess, of John. Heimmediately untied the handkerchief, and was himself quitefrightened when he saw the head of the ugly magician. Every oneshuddered, for it was terrible to look at. but the princess sat like astatue, and could not utter a single word. At length she rose and gaveJohn her hand, for he had guessed rightly.She looked at no one, but sighed deeply, and said, "You are mymaster now. this evening our marriage must take place.""I am very pleased to hear it," said the old king. "It is justwhat I wish."Then all the people shouted "Hurrah." The band played music in thestreets, the bells rang, and the cake women took the black crape offthe sugar sticks. There was universal joy. Three oxen, stuffed withducks and chickens, were roasted whole in the market place, whereevery one might help himself to a slice. The fountains spouted forththe most delicious wine, and whoever bought a penny loaf at thebaker's received six large buns, full of raisins, as a present. In theevening the whole town was illuminated. The soldiers fired offcannons, and the boys let off crackers. There was eating and drinking,dancing and jumping everywhere. In the palace, the high born gentlemenand beautiful ladies danced with each other, and they could be heardat a great distance singing the following song: "Here are maidens, young and fair,Dancing in the summer air.Like two spinning wheels at play,Pretty maidens dance away Dance the spring and summer throughTill the sole falls from your shoe."But the princess was still a witch, and she could not love John.His fellow traveller had thought of that, so he gave John threefeathers out of the swan's wings, and a little bottle with a few dropsin it. He told him to place a large bath full of water by theprincess's bed, and put the feathers and the drops into it. Then, atthe moment she was about to get into bed, he must give her a littlepush, so that she might fall into the water, and then dip her threetimes. This would destroy the power of the magician, and she wouldlove him very much. John did all that his companion told him to do.The princess shrieked aloud when he dipped her under the water thefirst time, and struggled under his hands in the form of a great blackswan with fiery eyes. As she rose the second time from the water,the swan had become white, with a black ring round its neck. Johnallowed the water to close once more over the bird, and at the sametime it changed into a most beautiful princess. She was more lovelyeven than before, and thanked him, while her eyes sparkled with tears,for having broken the spell of the magician. The next day, the kingcame with the whole court to offer their congratulations, and stayedtill quite late. Last of all came the travelling companion. he had hisstaff in his hand and his knapsack on his back. John kissed him manytimes and told him he must not go, he must remain with him, for he wasthe cause of all his good fortune. But the traveller shook his head,and said gently and kindly, "No: my time is up now. I have only paidmy debt to you. Do you remember the dead man whom the bad peoplewished to throw out of his coffin? You gave all you possessed thathe might rest in his grave. I am that man." As he said this, hevanished.The wedding festivities lasted a whole month. John and hisprincess loved each other dearly, and the old king lived to see many ahappy day, when he took their little children on his knees and letthem play with his sceptre. And John became king over the wholecountry.