SoldiersOnce upon a time there was a cobbler who was very poor, having nothingbut a wife and an old goat. Unable to earn anything in his homeland, hedecided to travel elsewhere. "Listen, dear wife," he said one day to her,"you see that I can earn nothing here. Therefore I am ready to leavetomorrow for somewhere else. Slaughter our goat so I can have something toeat on my way."The next day the goat was slaughtered. The cobbler took a portion of itwith him and set forth. He walked the entire day, but was able to reachneither a village nor a town. Exhausted, the poor man sat down to rest awhile beneath a statue that stood at the end of the path. He was about tounpack his meat when the statue began to speak, asking the cobbler, "Tellme, what do you have in your bundle?""A piece of goat meat," was the startled man's answer."My dear man, do you see the little wooden hut at the end of thepath?""Yes, I see it," he answered."Go there and throw your meat inside. The devils have their workshopthere. When they ask you what you demand in return, answer them, 'that oldrag that is lying on the bed.'"The cobbler immediately went to the hut, threw his meat inside, anddemanded in return the rag described by the statue. Only after mucharguing back and forth did they give it to him. The cobbler went away withit. Examining his reward, he saw that it was substantially worse than anyhe had at home.Returning to the statue, the cobbler expressed his displeasure at itsadvice. But the statue said, "Take this little stick from my hand andstrike the rag three times with it."The cobbler did what he was told to do, and the finest foods appearedon the rag. Thus the cobbler, who for a very long time had not had suchfare, was able to eat a delicious meal. When the feast was over, hethanked the statue, took the rag, and decided to return home.On the way he spent the night at an inn, where he demonstrated hismagic item to the other guests. The innkeeper and the innkeeper's wifewere amazed, and they secretly desired to possess such a rag themselves.That night the innkeeper stole the cobbler's rag, putting another one inits place near his bed. The next day the deceived man paid his bill andset off for home with the rag he presumed was genuine.Immediately after his arrival, he invited all of his relatives to ajoyous feast. The guests all appeared and were awaiting the food that wasto be served. The cobbler entered, the rag in his hand, and told everyonewhat had happened during the past few days.Then the cobbler brought forth the little stick and slowly struck therag three times. But no food appeared. The cobbler struck repeatedly, andmore and more vigorously, but the rag lay there dead, and the hungryguests went away unsatisfied. The poor man thought that the statue was thecause of his misfortune.Soon afterward the cobbler set forth a second time, again taking withhim a portion of his goat. Again he came to the statue, who told him toonce more give his meat to the devils and to demand in return the old goatthat was hanging on the door. The cobbler did this, and received the oldgoat, which was much worse off than the one he had slaughtered before hisjourney. Returning to the statue, he complained to it about the old animalhe had received. But the statue placed a little stick in his hand and toldthe man to strike the goat on the back with it. The cobbler did what hewas told, and to his amazement gold pieces fell from the goat's ears. Howhappy our man was when he saw the gold! Quickly thanking the statue, hehurried homeward with the old goat.On his way he felt hungry and thirsty, so he turned in at the same innwhere he had previously spent the night. After eating and drinking hewanted to pay his bill, but he had no money. In order to get some, he ledthe goat into the room, and with the little stick he hit it on the backthree times. It shook gold out of its ears, with which the cobbler paidhis bill. The innkeeper had scarcely seen this happen before he began tomake plans to take possession of the goat.Now the innkeeper owned a goat that looked exactly like the one inquestion. Therefore he decided to exchange his goat with the cobbler'sgoat during the night. And the plot was soon realized. He exchanged thegoats.The cobbler awoke the next morning and went on his way in good cheer,for he had no idea about the exchange. Upon his arrival home, he sent hiswife to get a pork roast for a delicious midday meal, saying that he wouldprovide the money for it.After they had eaten the meal, our cobbler wanted to try his magictrick. He led the goat into the room and struck it three times on the backwith his little stick. But no one saw any gold fall out. The cobblerstruck more and more vigorously, but without success. The mysterioussilence was broken only by the poor animal's weak bleating. All attemptswere for nothing. To be sure, the animal sadly shook its head, but nomoney fell from its ears. The poor cobbler saw that he had been cheatedonce again, and he set forth for the third and final time.Again he returned to the statue, which once more advised him to givethe goat meat to the devils, and this time to demand in return an old hatthat was lying next to the bed. The cobbler did as he was told, and didindeed receive the old hat, which   however   was in very poorcondition.The cobbler returned to the statue, which gave him a little stick. Hewas to strike the hat three times with it. The man did this, and to hisamazement, an entire regiment of soldiers emerged from it. He did not tireof looking at the little army, but he struck the hat once again, and allthe soldiers took their places inside.The statue then explained to the cobbler how the innkeeper where he hadspent the night had stolen the magic items he had previously won. Thecobbler resolved to gain them back, and, after thanking the statue, heleft for the inn. Arriving there, he demanded his rag and his goat fromthe innkeeper, but the innkeeper refused to give them back. Then thecobbler struck his hat, and immediately the entire room was filled tooverflowing with soldiers, who threatened the innkeeper with death if hedid not give back the magic items. Filled with fear, he gave back theitems, and the cobbler returned home as a wealthy man.After arriving home he immediately invited the king of the land tovisit him, promising to show him all kinds of interesting things. The kingcame and saw the goat and the rag, and the food served by it tastedwonderful to him. However, as he was leaving, he ordered his servants tosteal the rag as well as the goat. And they did so.The cobbler demanded the return of his property, but to no avail. Theking only laughed at him. Then the cobbler, trusting in his hat, declaredwar against the king. The latter received the declaration with a laugh.Together they decided on a place and a time for the battle. When the dayarrived, the cobbler was the first one on the battlefield. Soon the kingarrived with ten of his best soldiers. When the cobbler saw them he hadhis army march out of the hat, ordering them to capture the king and theothers. The king was amazed at the army and attempted to flee, for he feltthat he was too weak. However, the opposing horde had already surroundedhim. He had to surrender, and he was brought before the cobbler, whopromised him freedom as soon as he gave back his goat and his rag.Thus even a king was once defeated by a cobbler.