There was a man in a certain country who in process of time had three wives. By the first he had a son, who was a light hearted lad. but by the other twain issue had he none. His father loved this boy well. but his step dame looked upon him with an evil eye, and stinted him in his victual, and did him many a shrewd turn.At length she said unto the goodman: "I heartily pray you, sir, that you would put away this boy, who is a cursed plague to me, and let him serve someone else who will give him his desert."Her husband answered her, saying: "Woman, he is but a child. Let him abide with us another year, till he is better able to shift. We have a man, a stout carl, who keeps our beasts afield. look, the boy shall take his place, and we will have the fellow in the stead of him at home."To which the goodwife agreed.So on the morrow the little lad was sent to tend the sheep, and all the way he sang out of the gaiety of his heart. and his dinner he carried with him in a clout. But when he came to see what his step dame had given him to eat, he had small lust thereto, and he took but little, thinking that he would get more when he returned homeward at sundown.The boy sat on a hillside, watching his sheep and singing, when there came along an aged man, and stood still, when he espied the child, saying unto him: "Son, God bless thee!""Welcome, father," the boy replied.The old man said: "I hunger sore. hast thou any food of which thou mightest give me even some?"The child returned: "To such victual as I have thou art welcome, father."So he gave the old man the rest of his dinner, and thereof he was full fain. He ate, and grudged not. To please him was not hard.Then, when he had finished, he said: "Gramercy, child. and for the meat which thou hast spared me I will give thee three things. Tell me now what they shall be."The boy thought in his mind, and anon: "I would," quoth he, "have a bow, wherewith I could shoot birds.""I will find thee incontinently," said the stranger, "one that shall last thee through thy whole life, and shall never need renewing. Thou hast but to draw it, and it will hit the mark."Then he handed him the bow and the arrows. and when the child saw them, aloud he laughed, and was mightily content."Now," said he, "if I had a pipe, if it were ever so small, then I should be glad.""A pipe I here give thee," the old man said, "which hath in it strange properties. for all whosoever, save thyself, shall hear it, when thou playest, must dance to the music perforce. I promised thee three things. Say, what is to be the last?""I seek nothing more," replied the boy."Nothing?" quoth the stranger. "Speak, and thou hast thy will.""Well," said he, musing, "I have at home a step dame   a shrewd wife she   and she oftentimes looks ill favouredly at me, as though she meant me no love. Now, prythee, when so she looketh in that wise, let her laugh till she fall to the earth, and laugh still, unless I bid her to desist.""It is granted," said the stranger. "Farewell!""God keep thee, sir," said the boy.The evening drew on, and Jack wended homeward in great glee. He took his pipe and played it, and all his beasts and his dog danced to it in a row. He played as he went along, and the sheep and kine followed at his heels and the dog, dancing all the way, till they came to his father's abode. and he put by the pipe, and saw that all was fast, and then walked he into the house.His father sat at his supper, and Jack said unto him: "I am a hungered, sir. my dinner I might not eat, and I have had charge of the beasts the whole day."The husbandman threw a capon's wing toward him and told him to eat it. The goodwife sorely grudged that he should have so fair a morsel, and eyed him sourly. But she straightway fell to laughing, and she laughed, and she laughed, till she could no longer stand or sit, and fell on the floor, laughing still, and she ceased not till she was half dead. and then the boy said: "Dame, enough!" and she laughed not a whit more, which made them both amazed.Now this goodwife loved a friar, who oftentimes came to the house. and when he next shewed himself she made complaint to him of the boy, and told him how Jack had caused her to laugh, and had mocked her, and she prayed this friar to meet him on the morrow and beat him for his pains."I will do thy pleasure as thou desirest," quoth the friar."Do not forget," quoth the goodwife. "I trow he is some witch."So the morning following the boy went forth to drive his father's beasts to the field, and he took with him his bow and his pipe.And the friar rose betimes likewise, lest he might be too late, and he approached the boy, and thus he accosted him: "What, forsooth, hast thou done by thy step mother, Jack, that she is angered at thee? Tell me what it is. and if thou canst not satisfy me, surely I will beat thee.""What aileth thee?" asked Jack. "My dame fares as well as thou. Have done with thy chiding. Come, wilt thou see how I can bring down a bird with my bow, and what other things I can do? Though I be a little fellow, I will shoot yonder bird, and yours it shall be.""Shoot on," said the friar. The bird was hit surely enough, and dropped into a thorn bush."Go and fetch it," said Jack.The friar stepped into the middle of the brambles and picked up the bird. Jack put the pipe to his lips and began to play. The friar let the bird fall and set to dancing, and the louder the pipe sounded the higher he leapt, and the more the briars tore his clothes and pierced his flesh. His dress was now in shreds, and the blood streamed from his legs and arms. Jack played all the faster, and laughed withal."Gentle Jack," gasped out the friar, "hold thy hand. I have danced so long that I am like to die. Let me go, and I promise thee I will never again offer thee harm.""Jump out on the other side," quoth the boy, pausing, "and get thee gone."And the holy man made all the haste he could for shame's sake. for the thorns had almost stripped him to the skin, and covered him with blood. When he reached the house they wondered where he had been, and how he had fallen into such a sorry plight.The goodwife said: "I see well, father, by thine array that thou hast come to some mischief. What has befallen thee?""I have been with thy son," he replied. "The devil overcome him, for no one else may!"Then entered the goodman, and his wife said unto him: "Here is a pretty matter! Thy dear son hath well nigh slain this holy friar. Alack! Alack!"The goodman said: " Benedicite! what hath the boy been doing to thee, friar?""He made me dance willy willy among the briars, and, by Our Lady, the pipe went so merrily that I might have danced till I burst myself.""Hadst thou met with thy death so, father," said the goodman," it had been a great sin."At night, at the usual hour, the boy came back, and his father called him unto him, and questioned him about the friar."Father," said Jack, " I did nought, I tell thee, but play him a tune.""Well," answered the goodman, "let me hear this pipe myself.""Heaven forbid!" cried the friar, wringing his hands."Yea," quoth the goodman, "give us some music, Jack.""If," entreated the friar piteously, "thou wilt indeed have him play, first bind me to some post. If I hear that pipe I must fain dance, and then my life is nought worth. I am a dead man."They fastened him to a post in the centre of the hall, and they all laughed at his distress, and one said, "The friar is out of danger of falling now.""Now, boy," said the goodman, "play on.""That will I do, father," he replied, "till you bid me hold, and I warrant ye shall have music enough."As soon as the boy took up the pipe and laid his mouth to it, all began to dance and jump, faster and faster, and higher and higher, as though they were out of their wits. Even the friar struck his head against the post and screamed with pain. Some leapt over the table. some tumbled against the chairs. some fell in the fire.Jack passed out into the street, and they all followed him, capering wildly as they went. The neighbours started at the sound, and came out of their houses, springing over the fences. and many that had gone to rest jumped out of bed and hurried into the village, naked as they were, and joined the throng at Jack's heels. A phrenzy was upon them all, and they bounded into the air, and looked not whither they plunged. and some that could no longer keep their feet for lameness danced on all fours.The goodman said to his son: "Jack, I trow it is best to give over.""Let it be so," said the boy, and he desisted from his playing accordingly."This is the merriest sport," said the goodman, "that I have known this seven year.""Thou cursed boy!" exclaimed the friar, when they returned to the house, "I summon thee before the judge. Look thou be there on Friday.""Good," answered the boy. "I will. I would with all my heart it were already come."Friday arrived, and friar Topas and the step dame, and the whole party, appeared, and the judge was in his place, and there was a goodly gathering of people, for there were many other cases to be heard.The friar was fain to wait till his turn came, and then he addressed the judge, saying to him: "See, my lord, I have brought a boy to thee who hath wrought me and others many grievous trouble and sorrow. He is a necromancer such as in all this country hath not his like.""I hold him for a witch," put in the goodwife, and scowled at Jack. and forthwith she set to laughing till she fell down, and none could tell what she ailed, or whence her great mirth arose."Woman," said the judge, "tell thy tale."But she could not utter another word, though Jack stayed her laughter as he had power given to him to do so by the stranger on the hillside.Then spake Friar Topas, and said: "My lord, this boy will worst us all unless you soundly chastise him. He hath, sir, a pipe that will make you dance and hop till you are well nigh spent."The judge said, "This pipe I fain would see, and know what sort of mirth it maketh.""Marry! God forbid!" quoth the friar, "till I am out of the hearing of it.""Play on, Jack," said the judge," and let me see what thou canst do."Jack set the pipe to his lips and blew, and the whole room was quickly in motion. The judge sprang over the desk and bruised both his shins. and he shouted out to the boy to cease for God's sake and the love of the Virgin."Well," said Jack, "I will if they will promise me that they will never again do me trespass so long as I live."Then as many as were there, the friar, the step dame, and the rest, sware before the judge that they would keep the peace toward the boy, and help him to their power at all seasons against his enemies. and when they had done so Jack bad the judge farewell, and all proceeded merrily home.And thus it may be seen how the boy, because he was courteous and kind to the old man whom he met on the hillside while he tended his father's beasts, prospered, and kept every one in his country in his fear for evermore. For the old man was in truth a magician.