It is well known that the good people cannot stand mean ways. Now, thereonce lived a house wife who had a sharp eye to her own good in thisworld, and gave alms of what she had no use, for the good of her soul.One day a hill man knocked at her door. "Can you lend us a saucepan,good mother?" said he. "There's a wedding in the hill, and all the potsare in use." "Is he to have one?" asked the servant girl who opened thedoor. "Ay, to be sure," said the house wife.But when the maid was taking a saucepan from the shelf, she pinched herarm and whispered sharply, "Not that, you stupid. get the old one out ofthe cupboard. It leaks, and the hill men are so neat and such nimbleworkers that they are sure to mend it before they send it home. So onedoes a good turn to the good people and saves sixpence from the tinker."The maid fetched the saucepan, which had been laid by till the tinker'snext visit, and gave it to the dwarf, who thanked her and went away.The saucepan was soon returned neatly mended and ready for use. Atsupper time the maid filled the pan with milk and set it on the fire forthe children's supper, but in a few minutes the milk was so burnt andsmoked that no one could touch it, and even the pigs would not drink thewash into which it was thrown."Ah, you good for nothing slut!" cried the house wife, as she this timefilled the pan herself. "You would ruin the richest, with your carelessways. there's a whole quart of good milk spoilt at once." "And that'stwopence," cried a voice from the chimney, a queer whining voice likesome old body who was always grumbling over something.The house wife had not left the saucepan for two minutes when the milkboiled over, and it was all burnt and smoked as before. "The pan must bedirty," cried the house wife in a rage. "and there are two full quartsof milk as good as thrown to the dogs." "_And that's fourpence_," saidthe voice in the chimney.After a long scrubbing the saucepan was once more filled and set on thefire, but it was not the least use, the milk was burnt and smoked again,and the house wife burst into tears at the waste, crying out, "Neverbefore did such a thing happen to me since I kept house! Three quarts ofmilk burnt for one meal!" "_And that's sixpence,_" cried the voice fromthe chimney. "You didn't save the tinker after all," with which thehill man himself came tumbling down the chimney, and went off laughingthrough the door. But from that time the saucepan was as good as anyother.JULIANA HORATIA EWING.