One fine day a Tailor was sitting on his bench by the window in veryhigh spirits, sewing away most diligently, and presently up the streetcame a country woman, crying, "Good jams for sale! Good jams for sale!"This cry sounded nice in the Tailor's ears, and, poking his diminutivehead out of the window, he called, "Here, my good woman, just bring yourjams in here!" The woman mounted the three steps up to the Tailor'shouse with her large basket, and began to open all the pots togetherbefore him. He looked at them all, held them up to the light, smeltthem, and at last said, "These jams seem to me to be very nice, so youmay weigh me out two ounces, my good woman. I don't object even if youmake it a quarter of a pound." The woman, who hoped to have met with agood customer, gave him all he wished, and went off grumbling, and in avery bad temper."Now!" exclaimed the Tailor, "Heaven will send me a blessing on thisjam, and give me fresh strength and vigor." and, taking the bread fromthe cupboard, he cut himself a slice the size of the whole loaf, andspread the jam upon it. "That will taste very nice," said he. "but,before I take a bite, I will just finish this waistcoat." So he put thebread on the table and stitched away, making larger and larger stitchesevery time for joy. Meanwhile the smell of the jam rose to the ceiling,where many flies were sitting, and enticed them down, so that soon agreat swarm of them had pitched on the bread. "Holloa! who asked you?"exclaimed the Tailor, driving away the uninvited visitors. but theflies, not understanding his words, would not be driven off, and cameback in greater numbers than before. This put the little man in a greatpassion, and, snatching up in his anger a bag of cloth, he brought itdown with a merciless swoop upon them. When he raised it again hecounted as many as seven lying dead before him with outstretched legs."What a fellow you are!" said he to himself, astonished at his ownbravery. "The whole town must hear of this." In great haste he cuthimself out a band, hemmed it, and then put on it in large letters,"SEVEN AT ONE BLOW!" "Ah," said he, "not one city alone, the whole worldshall hear it!" and his heart danced with joy, like a puppy dog's tail.The little Tailor bound the belt around his body, and made ready totravel forth into the wide world, feeling the workshop too small for hisgreat deeds. Before he set out, however, he looked about his house tosee if there were anything he could carry with him, but he found only anold cheese, which he pocketed, and observing a bird which was caught inthe bushes before the door, he captured it, and put that in his pocketalso. Soon after he set out boldly on his travels. and, as he was lightand active, he felt no fatigue. His road led him up a hill, and when hearrived at the highest point of it he found a great Giant sitting there,who was gazing about him very composedly.But the little Tailor went boldly up, and said, "Good day, friend. trulyyou sit there and see the whole world stretched below you. I also am onmy way thither to seek my fortune. Are you willing to go with me?"The Giant looked with scorn at the little Tailor, and said, "You rascal!you wretched creature!""Perhaps so," replied the Tailor. "but here may be seen what sort of aman I am." and, unbuttoning his coat, he showed the Giant his belt. TheGiant read, "SEVEN AT ONE BLOW". and supposing they were men whom theTailor had killed, he felt some respect for him. Still he meant to tryhim first. so taking up a pebble, he squeezed it so hard that waterdropped out of it. "Do as well as that," said he to the other, "if youhave the strength.""If it be nothing harder than that," said the Tailor, "that's child'splay." And, diving into his pocket, he pulled out the cheese andsqueezed it till the whey ran out of it, and said, "Now, I fancy that Ihave done better than you."The Giant wondered what to say, and could not believe it of the littleman. so, catching up another pebble, he flung it so high that it almostwent out of sight, saying, "There, you pigmy, do that if you can.""Well done," said the Tailor. "but your pebble will fall down again tothe ground. I will throw one up which will not come down." and, dippinginto his pocket, he took out the bird and threw it into the air. Thebird, glad to be free, flew straight up, and then far away, and did notcome back. "How does that little performance please you, friend?" askedthe Tailor."You can throw well," replied the giant. "now truly we will see if youare able to carry something uncommon." So saying, he took him to a largeoak tree, which lay upon the ground, and said, "If you are strongenough, now help me to carry this tree out of the forest.""With pleasure," replied the Tailor. "you may hold the trunk upon yourshoulder, and I will lift the boughs and branches, they are theheaviest, and carry them."The Giant took the trunk upon his shoulder, but the Tailor sat down onone of the branches, and the Giant, who could not look round, wascompelled to carry the whole tree and the Tailor also. He being behind,was very cheerful, and laughed at the trick, and presently began to singthe song, "There rode three tailors out at the gate," as if the carryingof trees were a trifle. The Giant, after he had staggered a very shortdistance with his heavy load, could go no further, and called out, "Doyou hear? I must drop the tree." The Tailor, jumping down, quicklyembraced the tree with both arms, as if he had been carrying it, andsaid to the Giant, "Are you such a big fellow, and yet cannot you carrya tree by yourself?"Then they travelled on further, and as they came to a cherry tree, theGiant seized the top of the tree where the ripest cherries hung, and,bending it down, gave it to the Tailor to hold, telling him to eat. Butthe Tailor was far too weak to hold the tree down, and when the Giantlet go, the tree flew up in the air, and the Tailor was taken with it.He came down on the other side, however, unhurt, and the Giant said,"What does that mean? Are you not strong enough to hold that twig?" "Mystrength did not fail me," said the Tailor. "do you imagine that thatwas a hard task for one who has slain seven at one blow? I sprang overthe tree simply because the hunters were shooting down here in thethicket. Jump after me if you can." The Giant made the attempt, butcould not clear the tree, and stuck fast in the branches. so that inthis affair, too, the Tailor had the advantage.Then the Giant said, "Since you are such a brave fellow, come with me tomy house, and stop a night with me." The Tailor agreed, and followedhim. and when they came to the cave, there sat by the fire two otherGiants, each with a roast sheep in his hand, of which he was eating. TheTailor sat down thinking. "Ah, this is very much more like the worldthan is my workshop." And soon the Giant pointed out a bed where hecould lie down and go to sleep. The bed, however, was too large for him,so he crept out of it, and lay down in a corner. When midnight came, andthe Giant fancied the Tailor would be in a sound sleep, he got up, andtaking a heavy iron bar, beat the bed right through at one stroke, andbelieved he had thereby given the Tailor his death blow. At the dawn ofday the Giants went out into the forest, quite forgetting the Tailor,when presently up he came, quite cheerful, and showed himself beforethem. The Giants were frightened, and, dreading he might kill them all,they ran away in a great hurry.The Tailor travelled on, always following his nose, and after he hadjourneyed some long distance, he came into the courtyard of a royalpalace. and feeling very tired he laid himself down on the ground andwent to sleep. Whilst he lay there the people came and viewed him on allsides, and read upon his belt, "Seven at one blow." "Ah," they said,"what does this great warrior here in time of peace? This must be somevaliant hero." So they went and told the King, knowing that, should warbreak out, here was a valuable and useful man, whom one ought not topart with at any price. The King took advice, and sent one of hiscourtiers to the Tailor to beg for his fighting services, if he shouldbe awake. The messenger stopped at the sleeper's side, and waited tillhe stretched out his limbs and unclosed his eyes, and then he mentionedto him his message. "Solely for that reason did I come here," was hisanswer. "I am quite willing to enter into the King's service." Then hewas taken away with great honor, and a fine house was appointed him todwell in.The courtiers, however, became jealous of the Tailor, and wished him atthe other end of the world. "What will happen?" said they to oneanother. "If we go to war with him, when he strikes out seven will fallat one stroke, and nothing will be left for us to do." In their angerthey came to the determination to resign, and they went all together tothe King, and asked his permission, saying, "We are not prepared to keepcompany with a man who kills seven at one blow." The King was sorry tolose all his devoted servants for the sake of one, and wished that hehad never seen the Tailor, and would gladly have now been rid of him. Hedared not, however dismiss him, because he feared the Tailor might killhim and all his subjects, and seat himself upon the throne. For a longtime he deliberated, till finally he came to a decision. and, sendingfor the Tailor, he told him that, seeing he was so great a hero, hewished to beg a favor of him. "In a certain forest in my kingdom," saidthe King, "there are two Giants, who, by murder, rapine, fire, androbbery, have committed great damage, and no one approaches them withoutendangering his own life. If you overcome and slay both these Giants, Iwill give you my only daughter in marriage, and half of my kingdom for adowry: a hundred knights shall accompany you, too, in order to renderyou assistance.""Ah, that is something for a man like me," thought the Tailor tohimself: "a lovely Princess and half a kingdom are not offered to oneevery day." "Oh, yes," he replied, "I will soon settle these two Giants,and a hundred horsemen are not needed for that purpose. he who killsseven at one blow has no fear of two."Speaking thus, the little Tailor set out, followed by the hundredknights, to whom he said, immediately they came to the edge of theforest, "You must stay here. I prefer to meet these Giants alone."Then he ran off into the forest, peering about him on all sides. andafter a while he saw the two Giants sound asleep under a tree, snoringso loudly that the branches above them shook violently. The Tailor, boldas a lion, filled both his pockets with stones and climbed up the tree.When he got to the middle of it he crawled along a bough, so that he satjust above the sleepers, and then he let fall one stone after anotherupon the body of one of them. For some time the Giant did not move,until, at last awaking, he pushed his companion, and said, "Why are youhitting me?""You have been dreaming," he answered. "I did not touch you." So theylaid themselves down again to sleep, and presently the Tailor threw astone down upon the other. "What is that?" he cried. "Why are youknocking me about?""I did not touch you. you are dreaming," said the first. So they arguedfor a few minutes. but, both being very weary with the day's work, theysoon went to sleep again. Then the Tailor began his fun again, and,picking out the largest stone, threw it with all his strength upon thechest of the first Giant. "This is too bad!" he exclaimed. and, jumpingup like a madman, he fell upon his companion, who considered himselfequally injured, and they set to in such good earnest, that they rootedup trees and beat one another about until they both fell dead upon theground. Then the Tailor jumped down, saying, "What a piece of luck theydid not pull up the tree on which I sat, or else I must have jumped onanother like a squirrel, for I am not used to flying." Then he drew hissword, and, cutting a deep wound in the breast of both, he went to thehorsemen and said, "The deed is done. I have given each hisdeath stroke. but it was a tough job, for in their defence they uprootedtrees to protect themselves with. still, all that is of no use when suchan one as I come, who slew seven at one stroke.""And are you not wounded?" they asked."How can you ask me that? they have not injured a hair of my head,"replied the little man. The knights could hardly believe him, till,riding into the forest, they found the Giants lying dead, and theuprooted trees around them.Then the Tailor demanded the promised reward of the King. but herepented of his promise, and began to think of some new plan to shakeoff the hero. "Before you receive my daughter and the half of mykingdom," said he to him, "you must execute another brave deed. In theforest there lives a unicorn that commits great damage, you must firstcatch him.""I fear a unicorn less than I did two Giants! Seven at one blow is mymotto," said the Tailor. So he carried with him a rope and an axe andwent off to the forest, ordering those, who were told to accompany him,to wait on the outskirts. He had not to hunt long, for soon the unicornapproached, and prepared to rush at him as if it would pierce him on thespot. "Steady! steady!" he exclaimed, "that is not done so easily". and,waiting till the animal was close upon him, he sprang nimbly behind atree. The unicorn, rushing with all its force against the tree, stuckits horn so fast in the trunk that it could not pull it out again, andso it remained prisoner."Now I have got him," said the Tailor. and coming from behind the tree,he first bound the rope around its neck, and then cutting the horn outof the tree with his axe, he arranged everything, and, leading theunicorn, brought it before the King.The King, however, would not yet deliver over the promised reward, andmade a third demand, that, before the marriage, the Tailor shouldcapture a wild boar which did much damage, and he should have thehuntsmen to help him. "With pleasure," was the reply. "it is a merenothing." The huntsmen, however, he left behind, to their great joy, forthis wild boar had already so often hunted them, that they saw no fun innow hunting it. As soon as the boar perceived the Tailor, it ran at himwith gaping mouth and glistening teeth, and tried to throw him down onthe ground. but our flying hero sprang into a little chapel which stoodnear, and out again at a window, on the other side, in a moment. Theboar ran after him, but he, skipping around, closed the door behind it,and there the furious beast was caught, for it was much too unwieldy andheavy to jump out of the window.The Tailor now ordered the huntsmen up, that they might see his prisonerwith their own eyes. but our hero presented himself before the King, whowas obliged at last, whether he would or no, to keep his word, andsurrender his daughter and the half of his kingdom.If he had known that it was no warrior, but only a Tailor, who stoodbefore him, it would have grieved him still more.So the wedding was celebrated with great magnificence, though withlittle rejoicing, and out of a Tailor there was made a King.A short time afterwards the young Queen heard her husband talking in hissleep, saying, "Boy, make me a coat, and then stitch up these trowsers,or I will lay the yard measure over your shoulders!" Then she understoodof what condition her husband was, and complained in the morning to herfather, and begged he would free her from her husband, who was nothingmore than a tailor. The King comforted her by saying, "This night leaveyour chamber door open: my servants shall stand outside, and when he isasleep they shall come in, bind him, and carry him away to a ship, whichshall take him out into the wide world." The wife was pleased with theproposal. but the King's armor bearer, who had overheard all, went tothe young King and revealed the whole plot. "I will soon put an end tothis affair," said the valiant little Tailor. In the evening at theirusual time they went to bed, and when his wife thought he slept she gotup, opened the door, and laid herself down again.The Tailor, however, only pretended to be asleep, and began to call outin a loud voice, "Boy, make me a coat, and then stitch up thesetrowsers, or I will lay the yard measure about your shoulders. Sevenhave I slain with one blow, two Giants have I killed, a unicorn have Iled captive, and a wild boar have I caught, and shall I be afraid ofthose who stand outside my room?"When the men heard these words spoken by the Tailor, a great fear cameover them, and they ran away as if wild huntsmen were following them.neither afterwards dared any man venture to oppose him. Thus the Tailorbecame a King, and so he lived for the rest of his life.