There was once upon a time a King who had no children. Now this Kingwent and laid him down to rest at a place where four roads met, sothat every one who passed had to step over him.At last a Fakir came along, and he said to the King, "Man, why are youlying here?"He replied, "Fakir, a thousand men have come and passed by. you passon too."But the Fakir said, "Who are you, man?"The King replied, "I am a King, Fakir. Of goods and gold I have nolack, but I have lived long and have no children. So I have come here,and have laid me down at the cross roads. My sins and offences havebeen very many, so I have come and am lying here that men may passover me, and perchance my sins may be forgiven me, and God may bemerciful, and I may have a son."The Fakir answered him, "Oh King! If you have children, what will yougive me?""Whatever you ask, Fakir," answered the King.The Fakir said, "Of goods and gold I have no lack, but I will say aprayer for you, and you will have two sons. one of those sons will bemine."Then he took out two sweetmeats and handed them to the King, and said,"King! take these two sweetmeats and give them to your wives. givethem to the wives you love best."The King took the sweetmeats and put them in his bosom.Then the Fakir said, "King! in a year I will return, and of the twosons who will be born to you one is mine and one yours."The King said, "Well, I agree."Then the Fakir went on his way, and the King came home and gave onesweetmeat to each of his two wives. After some time two sons were bornto the King. Then what did the King do but place those two sons in anunderground room, which he had built in the earth.Some time passed, and one day the Fakir appeared, and said, "King!bring me that son of yours!"What did the King do but bring two slave girls' sons and present themto the Fakir. While the Fakir was sitting there the King's sons weresitting down below in their cellar eating their food. Just then ahungry ant had carried away a grain of rice from their food, and wasgoing along with it to her children. Another stronger ant came up andattacked her in order to get this grain of rice. The first ant said,"O ant, why do you drag this away from me? I have long been lame in myfeet, and I have got just one grain, and am carrying it to mychildren. The King's sons are sitting in the cellar eating their food.you go and fetch a grain from there. why should you take mine fromme?" On this the second ant let go and did not rob the first, but wentoff to where the King's sons were eating their food.On hearing this the Fakir said, "King! these are not your sons. go andbring those children who are eating their food in the cellar."Then the King went and brought his own sons. The Fakir chose theeldest son and took him away, and set off with him on his journey.When he got home he told the King's son to go out to gather fuel.So the King's son went out to gather cow dung, and when he hadcollected some he brought it in.Then the Fakir looked at the King's son and put on a great pot, andsaid, "Come round here, my pupil."But the King's son said, "Master first, and pupil after."The Fakir told him to come once, he told him twice, he told him threetimes, and each time the King's son answered, "Master first, and pupilafter."Then the Fakir made a dash at the King's son, thinking to catch himand throw him into the caldron. There were about a hundred gallons ofoil in this caldron, and the fire was burning beneath it. Then theKing's son, lifting the Fakir, gave him a jerk and threw him into thecaldron, and he was burnt, and became roast meat. He then saw a key ofthe Fakir's lying there. he took this key and opened the door of theFakir's house. Now many men were locked up in this house. two horseswere standing there in a hut of the Fakir's. two greyhounds were tiedup there. two simurgs were imprisoned, and two tigers also stoodthere. So the King's son let all the creatures go, and took them outof the house, and they all returned thanks to God. Next he let out allthe men who were in prison. He took away with him the two horses, andhe took away the two tigers, and he took away the two hounds, and hetook away the two simurgs, and with them he set out for anothercountry.As he went along the road he saw above him a bald man, grazing a herdof calves, and this bald man called out to him, "Fellow! can you fightat all?"The King's son replied, "When I was little I could fight a bit, andnow, if any one wants to fight, I am not so unmanly as to turn myback. Come, I will fight you."The bald man said, "If I throw you, you shall be my slave. and if youthrow me, I will be your slave." So they got ready and began to fight,and the King's son threw him.On this the King's son said, "I will leave my beasts here, my simurgs,tigers, and dogs, and horses. they will all stay here while I go tothe city to see the sights. I appoint the tiger as guard over myproperty. And you are my slave, you, too, must stay here with mybelongings." So the King's son started off to the city to see thesights, and arrived at a pool.He saw that it was a pleasant pool, and thought he would stop andbathe there, and therewith he began to strip off his clothes.Now the King's daughter, who was sitting on the roof of the palace,saw his royal marks, and she said, "This man is a king. when I marry,I will marry him and no other." So she said to her father, "My father.I wish to marry.""Good," said her father.Then the King made a proclamation: "Let all men, great and small,attend to day in the hall of audience, for the King's daughter willto day take a husband."All the men of the land assembled, and the traveller Prince also came,dressed in the Fakir's clothes, saying to himself, "I must see thisceremony to day." He went in and sat down.The King's daughter came out and sat in the balcony, and cast herglance round all the assembly. She noticed that the traveller Princewas sitting in the assembly in Fakir's attire.The Princess said to her handmaiden, "Take this dish of henna, go tothat traveller dressed like a Fakir, and sprinkle scent on him fromthe dish."The handmaiden obeyed the Princess's order, went to him, and sprinkledthe scent over him.Then the people said, "The slave girl has made a mistake."But she replied, "The slave girl has made no mistake, 'tis hermistress has made the mistake."On this the King married his daughter to the Fakir, who was really noFakir, but a Prince.What fate had decreed came to pass in that country, and they weremarried. But the King of that city became very sad in his heart,because when so many chiefs and nobles were sitting there his daughterhad chosen none of them, but had chosen that Fakir. but he kept thesethoughts concealed in his heart.One day the traveller Prince said, "Let all the King's sons in lawcome out with me to day to hunt."People said, "What is this Fakir that he should go a hunting?"However, they all set out for the hunt, and fixed their meeting placeat a certain pool.The newly married Prince went to his tigers, and told his tigers andhounds to kill and bring in a great number of gazelles and hog deerand markhor. Instantly they killed and brought in a great number. Thentaking with him these spoils of the chase, the Prince came to the poolsettled on as a meeting place. The other Princes, sons in law of theKing of that city, also assembled there. but they had brought in nogame, and the new Prince had brought a great deal. Thence theyreturned home to the town, and went to the King their father in law,to present their game.Now that King had no son. Then the new Prince told him that in facthe, too, was a Prince. At this the King, his father in law, wasgreatly delighted and took him by the hand and embraced him. He seatedhim by himself, saying, "O Prince, I return thanks that you have comehere and become my son in law. I am very happy at this, and I makeover my kingdom to you."