Once upon a time there was a King who was so ill that everybodydespaired of his life, and his three sons were very sorry, and went outinto the palace gardens to weep. There they met an old man, who askedthe cause of their grief, and they told him their Father was so ill thathe must die, for nothing could save him. The old Man said, "I know ameans of saving him: if he drinks of the water of life it will restorehim to health. but it is very difficult to find.""I will soon find it," said the eldest Son, and, going to the sick King,he begged his permission to set out in search of the water of life,which alone could save him. "No. the danger is too great," said theKing. "I prefer to die." Nevertheless, the Son begged and entreated solong that the King consented, and the Prince went away, thinking in hisown heart, "If I bring this water I am the dearest to my Father, and Ishall inherit his kingdom."After he had ridden a long way he met a Dwarf on the road, who askedhim, "Whither away so quickly?""You stupid dandyprat," replied the Prince proudly, "why should I tellyou that?" and he rode off. But the little Man was angry and he wishedan evil thing, so that, soon after, the Prince came into a narrowmountain pass, and the farther he rode the narrower it grew, till atlast it was so close that he could get no farther. but neither could heturn his horse round, nor dismount, and he sat there like one amazed.Meanwhile the sick King waited a long while for him, but he did notcome. and the second Son asked leave to go too and seek the water, forhe thought to himself, "If my Brother is dead the kingdom comes to me."At first the King refused to spare him, but he gave way, and the Princeset out on the same road as the elder one had taken, and met also thesame Dwarf, who stopped him and asked him, "Whither ride you sohastily?" "Little dandyprat," replied the Prince, "what do you want toknow for?" and he rode off without looking round. The Dwarf, however,enchanted him, and it happened to him as it had to his Brother: he cameto a defile where he could move neither forward nor backward. Such isthe fate of all haughty people.Now, when the second Son did not return, the youngest begged leave to goand fetch the water, and the King was obliged at last to give hisconsent. When he met the Dwarf, and was asked whither he was going sohurriedly, he stopped and replied, "I seek the water of life, for myFather is sick unto death." "Do you know where to find it?" asked theDwarf. "No," replied the Prince. "Since you have behaved yourself as youought," said the Dwarf, "and not haughtily like your false Brothers, Iwill give you information and show you where you may obtain the water oflife. It flows from a fountain in the court of an enchanted castle, intowhich you can never penetrate if I do not give you an iron rod and twoloaves of bread. With the rod knock thrice at the iron door of thecastle, and it will spring open. Within lie two lions with open jaws,but if you throw down to each a loaf of bread they will be quiet. Thenhasten and fetch some of the water of life before it strikes twelve, forthen the door will shut again, and you will be imprisoned."The Prince thanked the Dwarf, and, taking the rod and bread, he set outon his journey, and as he arrived at the castle he found it as the Dwarfhad said. At the third knock the door sprang open. and, when he hadstilled the lions with the bread, he walked into a fine, large hall,where sat several enchanted Princes, from whose fingers he drew off therings, and he also took away with him a sword and some bread which laythere. A little farther on he came to a room wherein stood a beautifulmaiden, who was so pleased to see him that she kissed him and said hehad freed her, and should have her whole kingdom, and if he came inanother year their wedding should be celebrated. Then she told him wherethe fountain of water of life was placed, and he hastened away lest itshould strike twelve ere he gained it. He came next into a room where afine, clean covered bed stood, and, being tired, he lay down to resthimself a bit. But he went to sleep, and when he awoke it struck thequarter to twelve, and the sound made him hurry to the fountain, fromwhich he took some water in a cup which stood near. This done, hehastened to the door, and was scarcely out before it struck twelve, andthe door swung to so heavily that it carried away a piece of his heel.But he was very glad, in spite of this, that he had procured the water,and he journeyed homeward, and passed again where the Dwarf stood. Whenthe Dwarf saw the sword and bread which he had brought away he declaredhe had done well, for with the sword he could destroy whole armies butthe bread was worth nothing. Now, the Prince was not willing to returnhome to his Father without his Brothers, and so he said to the Dwarf,"Dear Dwarf, can you tell me where my Brothers are? They went out beforeme in search of the water of life, and did not return." "They are stuckfast between two mountains," replied the Dwarf. "because they were sohaughty, I enchanted them there."Then the Prince begged for their release, till at last the Dwarf broughtthem out. but he warned the youngest to beware of them, for they hadevil in their hearts.When his Brothers came he was very glad, and he related to them all thathad happened to him. how he had found the water of life and brought awaya cupful of it. and how he had rescued a beautiful Princess, who for awhole year was going to wait for him, and then he was to return to bemarried to her, and receive a rich kingdom. After this tale the threeBrothers rode away together, and soon entered a province where therewere war and famine raging, and the King thought he should perish, sogreat was his necessity. The youngest Prince went to this King and gavehim the bread, with which he fed and satisfied his whole people. andthen the Prince gave him the sword, wherewith he defeated and slew allhis enemies, and regained peace and quiet. This effected, the Princetook back the bread and sword, and rode on farther with his Brothers,and by and by they came to two other provinces where also war and faminewere destroying the people. To each King the Prince lent his bread andsword, and so saved three kingdoms. After, this they went on board aship to pass over the sea which separated them from home, and during thevoyage the two elder Brothers said to one another, "Our Brother hasfound the water of life and we have not. therefore our Father will givethe kingdom which belongs to us to him, and our fortune will be takenaway." Indulging these thoughts they became so envious that theyconsulted together how they should kill him, and one day, waiting tillhe was fast asleep, they poured the water out of his cup and took it forthemselves, while they filled his up with bitter salt water. As soon asthey arrived at home the youngest Brother took his cup to the sick King,that he might drink out of it and regain his health. But scarcely had hedrunk a very little of the water when he became worse than before, forit was as bitter as wormwood. While the King lay in this state, the twoelder Princes came, and accused their Brother of poisoning their Father.but they had brought the right water, and they handed it to the King.Scarcely had he drunk a little out of the cup when the King felt hissickness leave him, and soon he was as strong and healthy as in hisyoung days. The two Brothers now went to the youngest Prince, mockinghim, and saying, "You certainly found the water of life. but you had thetrouble and we had the reward. you should have been more cautious andkept your eyes open, for we took your cup while you were asleep on thesea. and, moreover, in a year one of us intends to fetch your Princess.Beware, however, that you betray us not. the King will not believe you,and if you say a single word your life will be lost. but if you remainsilent you are safe." The old King, nevertheless, was very angry withhis youngest Son, who had conspired, as he believed, against his life.He caused his court to be assembled, and sentence was given to theeffect that the Prince should be secretly shot. and once as he rode outhunting, unsuspicious of any evil, the Huntsman was sent with him toperform the deed. By and by, when they were alone in the wood, theHuntsman seemed so sad that the Prince asked him what ailed him. TheHuntsman replied, "I cannot and yet must tell you." "Tell me boldly whatit is," said the Prince, "I will forgive you." "Ah, it is no other thanthat I must shoot you, for so has the King ordered me," said theHuntsman, with a deep sigh.The Prince was frightened, and said, "Let me live, dear Huntsman, let melive! I will give you my royal coat and you shall give me yours inexchange." To this the Huntsman readily assented, for he felt unable toshoot the Prince, and after they had exchanged their clothing theHuntsman returned home, and the Prince went deeper into the wood.A short time afterward three wagons laden with gold and precious stonescame to the King's palace for his youngest Son. They were sent by thethree Kings in token of gratitude for the sword which had defeated theirenemies, and the bread which had nourished their people. At this arrivalthe old King said to himself, "Perhaps, after all, my Son wasguiltless," and he lamented to his courtiers that he had let his Son bekilled. But the Huntsman cried out, "He lives yet! for I could not findit in my heart to fulfil your commands". and he told the King how it hadhappened. The King felt as if a stone had been removed from his heart,and he caused it to be proclaimed everywhere throughout his dominionsthat his Son might return and would again be taken into favor.Meanwhile the Princess had caused a road to be made up to her castle ofpure shining gold, and she told her attendants that whoever should ridestraight up this road would be the right person, and one whom they mightadmit into the castle. but, on the contrary, whoever should ride up noton the road, but by the side, they were ordered on no account to admit,for he was not the right person. When, therefore, the time came roundwhich the Princess had mentioned to the youngest Prince, the eldestBrother thought he would hasten to her castle and announce himself asher deliverer, that he might gain her as a bride and the kingdombesides. So he rode away, and when he came in front of the castle andsaw the fine golden road he thought it would be a shame to ride thereon,and so he turned to the left hand and rode up out of the road. But as hecame up to the door the guards told him he was not the right person, andhe must ride back again. Soon afterward the second Prince also set out,and he, likewise, when he came to the golden road and his horse set itsforefeet upon it, thought it would be a pity to travel upon it, so heturned aside to the right hand and went up. When he came to the gate theguards refused him admittance, and told him he was not the personexpected, and so he had to return homeward. The youngest Prince, who hadall this time been wandering about in the forest, had also rememberedthat the year was up, and soon after his Brothers' departure he appearedbefore the castle and rode up straight on the golden road, for he was sodeeply engaged in thinking of his beloved Princess that he did notobserve it. As soon as he arrived at the door it was opened, and thePrincess received him with joy, saving he was her deliverer and the lordof her dominions. Soon after their wedding was celebrated, and when itwas over the Princess told her husband that his Father had forgiven himand desired to see him. Thereupon he rode to the old King's palace, andtold him how his Brothers had betrayed him while he slept, and had swornhim to silence. When the King heard this he would have punished thefalse Brothers, but they had prudently taken themselves off in a ship,and they never returned home afterward.