The king of Norway sends a polar bear ( wazzerber ) as a gift to the king of Denmark. The bear and its leader have just landed in Denmark when night overtakes them and they hasten on to a house by the roadside. The Norseman explains to the fanner that the bear is not a dangerous monster and asks quarters for the night.This request the farmer would gladly grant, but he confesses that he has no power over his homestead after nightfall, for a malicious kobold ( schretel ) drives him and his cattle away each evening. The stranger declares his reliance on God, and repeats his request, to which the host gives unwilling assent. Well supplied with food, man and bear prepare to spend the night in the bakery.While both are asleep a red capped kobold scarcely three spans long comes up to the fire and begins to roast some meat on an iron spit. Jealously it eyes the interlopers, particularly the bear, until passion so overcomes it that it strikes the bear on the back of the head.The bear snarls but makes no move. When the meat drips fat the schretel deals another blow and the bear "turns the other cheek." Finally, when the chop sizzles with the heat, the little fellow raises spit and all high above his head and brings it down on the bear's mouth.Then the bear does not prove to be so lazy after all, and the scuffle begins in earnest. For some time neither side has an advantage, but ultimately the kobold is obliged to give in. All the while the bear's master has been watching the melee from a safe retreat in the oven, and even when the disturber of the peace has fled he does not venture forth.On the morrow the householder inquires somewhat anxiously about the health of his visitors, and before they go on learns the events of the night.Later that morning when the farmer has gone out into the field to plow, the disheveled kobold comes running up to him with the query: "Is your big cat still alive?"With ready wit the farmer grasps the situation, and assures the kobold that the "old cat" in addition to being alive is now the mother of five young ones. Thereupon the kobold flees forever, and since then the farmer and his family have lived happily in the farmhouse.