bad children do not like to be corrected by those who know more thanthey do.Very little time did it take to get poor old Geppetto to prison. Inthe meantime that rascal, Pinocchio, free now from the clutches of theCarabineer, was running wildly across fields and meadows, taking oneshort cut after another toward home. In his wild flight, he leaped overbrambles and bushes, and across brooks and ponds, as if he were a goator a hare chased by hounds.On reaching home, he found the house door half open. He slipped intothe room, locked the door, and threw himself on the floor, happy at hisescape.But his happiness lasted only a short time, for just then he heardsomeone saying:"Cri cri cri!""Who is calling me?" asked Pinocchio, greatly frightened."I am!"Pinocchio turned and saw a large cricket crawling slowly up the wall."Tell me, Cricket, who are you?""I am the Talking Cricket and I have been living in this room for morethan one hundred years.""Today, however, this room is mine," said the Marionette, "and if youwish to do me a favor, get out now, and don't turn around even once.""I refuse to leave this spot," answered the Cricket, "until I have toldyou a great truth.""Tell it, then, and hurry.""Woe to boys who refuse to obey their parents and run away from home!They will never be happy in this world, and when they are older theywill be very sorry for it.""Sing on, Cricket mine, as you please. What I know is, that tomorrow,at dawn, I leave this place forever. If I stay here the same thing willhappen to me which happens to all other boys and girls. They are sent toschool, and whether they want to or not, they must study. As for me,let me tell you, I hate to study! It's much more fun, I think, to chaseafter butterflies, climb trees, and steal birds' nests.""Poor little silly! Don't you know that if you go on like that, youwill grow into a perfect donkey and that you'll be the laughingstock ofeveryone?""Keep still, you ugly Cricket!" cried Pinocchio.But the Cricket, who was a wise old philosopher, instead of beingoffended at Pinocchio's impudence, continued in the same tone:"If you do not like going to school, why don't you at least learn atrade, so that you can earn an honest living?""Shall I tell you something?" asked Pinocchio, who was beginning to losepatience. "Of all the trades in the world, there is only one that reallysuits me.""And what can that be?""That of eating, drinking, sleeping, playing, and wandering around frommorning till night.""Let me tell you, for your own good, Pinocchio," said the TalkingCricket in his calm voice, "that those who follow that trade always endup in the hospital or in prison.""Careful, ugly Cricket! If you make me angry, you'll be sorry!""Poor Pinocchio, I am sorry for you.""Why?""Because you are a Marionette and, what is much worse, you have a woodenhead."At these last words, Pinocchio jumped up in a fury, took a hammer fromthe bench, and threw it with all his strength at the Talking Cricket.Perhaps he did not think he would strike it. But, sad to relate, my dearchildren, he did hit the Cricket, straight on its head.With a last weak "cri cri cri" the poor Cricket fell from the wall,dead!