Most terribly cold it was. it snowed, and was nearly quite dark, andevening the last evening of the year. In this cold and darkness therewent along the street a poor little girl, bareheaded, and with nakedfeet. When she left home she had slippers on, it is true. but what wasthe good of that? They were very large slippers, which her mother hadhitherto worn. so large were they. and the poor little thing lost themas she scuffled away across the street, because of two carriages thatrolled by dreadfully fast.One slipper was nowhere to be found. the other had been laid hold of byan urchin, and off he ran with it. he thought it would do capitally fora cradle when he some day or other should have children himself. So thelittle maiden walked on with her tiny naked feet, that were quite redand blue from cold. She carried a quantity of matches in an old apron,and she held a bundle of them in her hand. Nobody had bought anything ofher the whole livelong day. no one had given her a single farthing.She crept along trembling with cold and hunger a very picture ofsorrow, the poor little thing!The flakes of snow covered her long fair hair, which fell in beautifulcurls around her neck. but of that, of course, she never once nowthought. From all the windows the candles were gleaming, and it smelt sodeliciously of roast goose, for you know it was New Year's Eve. yes, ofthat she thought.In a corner formed by two houses, of which one advanced more than theother, she seated herself down and cowered together. Her little feetshe had drawn close up to her, but she grew colder and colder, and to gohome she did not venture, for she had not sold any matches and couldnot bring a farthing of money: from her father she would certainly getblows, and at home it was cold too, for above her she had only the roof,through which the wind whistled, even though the largest cracks werestopped up with straw and rags.Her little hands were almost numbed with cold. Oh! a match might affordher a world of comfort, if she only dared take a single one out of thebundle, draw it against the wall, and warm her fingers by it. She drewone out. "Rischt!" how it blazed, how it burnt! It was a warm, brightflame, like a candle, as she held her hands over it: it was a wonderfullight. It seemed really to the little maiden as though she were sittingbefore a large iron stove, with burnished brass feet and a brassornament at top. The fire burned with such blessed influence. it warmedso delightfully. The little girl had already stretched out her feet towarm them too. but the small flame went out, the stove vanished: shehad only the remains of the burnt out match in her hand.She rubbed another against the wall: it burned brightly, and where thelight fell on the wall, there the wall became transparent like aveil, so that she could see into the room. On the table was spread asnow white tablecloth. upon it was a splendid porcelain service, and theroast goose was steaming famously with its stuffing of apple and driedplums. And what was still more capital to behold was, the goose hoppeddown from the dish, reeled about on the floor with knife and fork in itsbreast, till it came up to the poor little girl. when the match wentout and nothing but the thick, cold, damp wall was left behind.She lighted another match. Now there she was sitting under the mostmagnificent Christmas tree: it was still larger, and more decorated thanthe one which she had seen through the glass door in the rich merchant'shouse.Thousands of lights were burning on the green branches, andgaily colored pictures, such as she had seen in the shop windows, lookeddown upon her. The little maiden stretched out her hands towards themwhen the match went out. The lights of the Christmas tree rose higherand higher, she saw them now as stars in heaven. one fell down andformed a long trail of fire."Someone is just dead!" said the little girl. for her old grandmother,the only person who had loved her, and who was now no more, had toldher, that when a star falls, a soul ascends to God.She drew another match against the wall: it was again light, and in thelustre there stood the old grandmother, so bright and radiant, so mild,and with such an expression of love."Grandmother!" cried the little one. "Oh, take me with you! You goaway when the match burns out. you vanish like the warm stove, like thedelicious roast goose, and like the magnificent Christmas tree!" Andshe rubbed the whole bundle of matches quickly against the wall, forshe wanted to be quite sure of keeping her grandmother near her. Andthe matches gave such a brilliant light that it was brighter than atnoon day: never formerly had the grandmother been so beautiful andso tall. She took the little maiden, on her arm, and both flew inbrightness and in joy so high, so very high, and then above was neithercold, nor hunger, nor anxiety they were with God.But in the corner, at the cold hour of dawn, sat the poor girl, withrosy cheeks and with a smiling mouth, leaning against the wall frozento death on the last evening of the old year. Stiff and stark sat thechild there with her matches, of which one bundle had been burnt. "Shewanted to warm herself," people said. No one had the slightest suspicionof what beautiful things she had seen. no one even dreamed of thesplendor in which, with her grandmother she had entered on the joys of anew year.