PopefigsThe Fourth Book of Pantagruel.Pantagruel ... was told that for the last three years there had raged inthe island a pestilence so horrible, that the half or more of the countryhad remained desolate, and the lands without occupiers. When thepestilence had gone by, this man ... was plowing a large and fertile pieceof ground and sowing it with wheat at the very day and hour that a smalldevil (one who did not know how to thunder or hail except only on parsleyand cabbages, and moreover could not yet read or write) had obtained leavefrom Lucifer to go for a holiday and recreation in this Island of thePopefigs, wherein the devils were very familiar with the men and women,and often went there to pass their time.This devil, having got to the place, addressed himself to the laborer, andasked him what he was doing. The poor man answered him that he was sowingthis field with wheat, to help him to live the following year."Nay, but this field is none of thine," said the devil. "It is mine, andbelongs to me. for ... all this country was adjudged, proscribed and givenup to us. To sow corn, however, is not my province. wherefore I leave theethe field, but on condition that we share the profit.""I am willing," answered the laborer."I mean," said the devil, "that we are to make two lots of the profit thatresults. One shall be that which grows above the earth, the other thatwhich shall be covered by the earth. The right of choosing belongs to me,for I am a devil, born of a noble and ancient race. thou art but a clown.I make choice of that which shall be in the earth. Thou shall have thatwhich is above. At what time shall be the in gathering?""About the middle of July," answered the laborer."Very well," said the devil, "I will not fail to be here. Meantime do asis thy duty to do. Work, villain, work. I am off to tempt to the gallantsin of luxury, the noble nuns of Pette sec, also the cowled hypocrites andgluttons. Of their desires I am more than assured. They have but to meet,and the combat takes place."When mid July had come, the devil presented himself at the place,accompanied by a troop of little devilkins of the choir. There, findingthe laborer, he said, "Now, villain, how hast thou done since mydeparture? It is fitting now that we should make out our shares.""It is but reason," answered the laborer. Then the laborer and his menbegan to reap the corn. The devilkins likewise pulled up the stubble fromthe earth. The laborer threshed his corn on the threshing floor, winnowedit, put it in sacks and carried it to market to sell. The imps did thesame, and set themselves down at the marketplace, near the laborer, tosell their stubble.The laborer sold his corn very well, and with the money filled an oldhalf buskin, which he carried at his girdle. The devils sold nothing. Nay,on the contrary, the peasants jeered at them in open market.When the market was over, the devil said to the laborer, "Villain, thouhast cheated me this time. Next time thou shall not do so.""Master Devil," said the laborer, "how could I have cheated you, when youhad the first choice? The truth is, that in this choice you thought tocheat me, expecting that nothing would come out of the earth for my share,and that you would find below the whole of the grain which I had sown,intending therewith to tempt the poor and needy, the hypocrites, or themisers, and by temptation to make them fall into your snares. But you aremighty young at your trade. The grain which you see in the earth is deadand rotten. The corruption of that has caused the generation of the other,which you saw me sell. So you do choose the worse. That is why you arecursed in the Gospel.""Let us leave this subject," said the devil. "What canst thou sow ourfield with next year? ""To make a profit like a good husbandman," said the laborer, "the properthing would be to sow turnips.""Well," said the devil, "thou art an honest clown. Sow turnips inabundance. I will guard them from the storm, and will not hail upon them.But understand thoroughly: I retain for my share that which shall be aboveground. Thou shall have all that is below. Work, villain, work. I am offto tempt the heretics. Their souls are dainty morsels when broiled on thecoals. My lord Lucifer has the colic. they will make a tid bit for him."When the time of gathering was come, the devil appeared on the ground witha squadron of waiting devilkins. There, finding the laborer and his men,he began to cut and gather the leaves of the turnips. After him thelaborer dug and pulled up the big turnips, and put them into sacks. Sothey all go off together to market. The laborer sold his turnips verywell. The devil sold nothing, and, what was worse, they jeered at himpublicly."I see very well, villain," said the devil, "that I have been cheated bythee. I will make an end of the business between thee and me.