When our father died, he left each of us one hundred dirhams. My fifthbrother invested his inheritance in glassware, hoping to resell it at ahandsome profit. He exhibited the glassware on a large tray, then fell tomusing:These pieces will bring me two hundred dirhams, which I canuse to buy more glass, which I will then sell for four hundred dirhams.With this money I can buy more glass and other merchandise to sell, and soon and so on until I have amassed a hundred thousand dirhams. Then I willpurchase a fine house with slaves and eunuchs, and when my capital hasgrown to a hundred thousand dinars, I will demand to marry the PrimeMinister's eldest daughter, and if he refuses consent, I will take her byforce.On my wedding night I will don my finest attire and seat myself on acushion of gold brocade to receive my bride. She will present herself inher most beautiful clothing, lovely as the full moon, but I will not evenglance at her until her attendants kiss the ground before me and beg me tolook at her, and then I will cast at her one single glance.When they leave us alone I will neither look at her nor speak to her, butwill show my contempt by lying beside her with my face to the wall.Presently her mother will come into the chamber and beg of me, "Please, mylord, your handmaid longs for your favor." I will give no answer. Thenshe will kiss my feet and say, "My lord, my daughter is truly a beautifulmaid who has never before been with a man. Do speak to her and soothe hermind and spirit." Then she will bring a cup of wine, hand it to herdaughter, saying, "Take this to your lord."I will say nothing, leaning back so that she may see in me a sultan and amighty man. She will say to me, "My lord, do not refuse to take this cupfrom the hand of your servant." I will say nothing, and she will insist,"You must drink it," and press the cup to my lips. Then I will shake myfist in her face and kick her with my foot.With that he struck out, catching the tray of glassware with his foot.It crashed to the ground and everything broke to pieces, and thus mybrother lost both his capital and his profit.