One time, away back yonder, the old sow and her children were allliving longer than the other creatures. It seems to me that the old sowwas a widow woman, and if I am not mistaken, that that she had fivechildren. Let me see, there was Big Pig, and there was Little Pig, andthere was Speckled Pig, and there was Blunt, and last and lonesome, therewas Runt.One day this here pig mother, she knew that she was going to kick thebucket, and she took and called up all her children and told them that thetime had come when they had to look out for themselves. And then she upand told them as good as she could, although her breath was mighty scant,about what a bad man old Brer Wolf was. She said that if they could escapefrom old Brer Wolf, they'd be doing monstrously well.Big Pig allowed that she wasn't afraid. Speckled Pig allowed that shewasn't afraid. Blunt, he said that he was almost as big a man as Brer Wolfhimself. And Runt, she just took and rooted around in the straw andgrunted. But old Widow Sow, she lay there, she did, and kept on tellingthem that they had better keep their eyes on Brer Wolf, because he was avery mean and deceitful man.Not long after that, sure enough, old Miss Sow lay down and died, andall of those children of hers were flung back on themselves, and theywhirled in, they did, and each one built himself a house to live in. BigPig, she took and built herself a house out of brush. Little Pig, she tookand built a stick house. Speckled Pig, she took and built a mud house.Blunt, he took and built a plank house. And Runt, she didn't make anygreat to do, and no great brags, but she went to work, she did, and builta rock house.By and by, when they had everything fixed up, and matters were sort ofsettled, early one morning here came old Brer Wolf licking his chops andshaking his tail. The first house he came to was Big Pig's house. BrerWolf walked up to the door, he did, and he knocked sort of softly,blim! blim! blim! Nobody answered. Then he knocked loudly, blam!blam! blam! This woke up Big Pig, and she came to the door, and sheasked who it was.Brer Wolf allowed it was a friend, and he sang out:If you'll open the door and let me in,I'll warm my hands and go home again.Big Pig asked again who it was, and then Brer Wolf up and said, "How'syour ma?""My ma is dead," she said, "and before she died, she told me to keep myeyes on Brer Wolf. I see you through the crack in the door, and you lookmighty like Brer Wolf."Then old Brer Wolf, he drew a long breath, like he felt very bad, andthen he up and said, "I don't know what changed her mind, unless she wasout of her head. I heard tell that old Miss Sow was sick, and I said tomyself that I'd ought to drop around and see how the old lady is, andfetch her this here bag of roasting ears. I know might well that if yourma was here right now, in her right mind, she'd take the roasting ears andbe glad to get them, and more than that, she'd ask me in by the fire towarm my hands," said old Brer Wolf.The talk about the roasting ears made Big Pig's mouth water, and by andby, after some more palaver, she opened the door and let Brer Wolf in, andbless your soul, that was the last of Big Pig. She didn't have time tosqueal, or to grunt either, before Brer Wolf gobbled her up.The next day old Brer Wolf put up the same game on Little Pig. He wentand sang his song, and Little Pig, she took and let him in, and then BrerWolf, he took and returned the compliments and let Little Pig in. LittlePig, she let Brer Wolf in, and Brer Wolf, he let Little Pig in, and whatmore can you ask than that?The next time Brer Wolf paid a call, he dropped in on Speckled Pig, andrapped at the door, and sang his song:If you'll open the door and let me in,I'll warm my hands and go home again.But Speckled Pig, she kind of suspected something, and she refused toopen the door. Yet Brer Wolf was a mighty deceitful man, and he talkedmighty soft, and he talked mighty sweet. By and by, he got his nose in thecrack of the door, and he said to Speckled Pig, to just let him get onepaw in, and then he won't go any further. He got the paw in, and then hebegged to get the other paw in, and then when he got that in, he begged toget his head in, and then when he got his head in, and his paws in, ofcourse all he had to do was to shove the door open and walk right in. Andwhen matters stood that way, it wasn't long before he made fresh meat ofSpeckled Pig.The next day, he did away with Blunt, and the day after that he allowedthat he would make a pass at Runt. Now then, right there is where old BrerWolf slipped up. He is like some folks I know. He'd have been mightysmart, if he hadn't been too smart. Runt was the littlest one of the wholegang, yet all the same, the news was out that she was pestered with senselike grown folks.Brer Wolf, he crept up to Runt's house, and he got underneath thewindow, he did, and he sang out:If you'll open the door and let me in,I'll warm my hands and go home again.But all the same, Brer Wolf couldn't coax Runt to open the door, neithercould he break in, because the house was made of rock. By and by Brer Wolfmade out like he'd gone off, and after a while he came back and knocked atthe door, blam, blam, blam!Runt, she sat by the fire, she did, and sort of scratched her ear,and hollered out, "Who's that?""It's Speckled Pig," said old Brer Wolf, between a snort and a grunt."I fetched you some peas for your dinner!"Runt, she took and laughed, she did, and hollered back, "Sis SpeckledPit never talked through that many teeth."Brer Wolf went off again, and by and by he came back and knocked.Runt, she sat on a rock and hollered out, "Who's that?""Big Pig," said Brer Wolf. I fetched some sweet corn for yoursupper."Runt, she looked through the crack underneath the door, and laughed,and said, "Sis Big Pig didn't ever have any hair on her hooves.Then old Brer Wolf, he got mad, he did, and he said he was going tocome down the chimney. And Runt, she said that that was the only way thathe could get in. And then when she heard Brer Wolf climbing up on theoutside of the chimney, she took and piled up a whole lot of broom strawin front of the hearth, and when she heard him climbing down on theinside, she took the tongs and shoved the straw onto the fire, and thesmoke made Brer Wolf's head swim, and he dropped down, and before he knewit, he was burned to a crackling.And that was the last of old Brer Wolf. At least it was the last ofthat Brer Wolf.