"Why do you call the fairies 'good people?'" asked I."I don't call them the good people myself," answered Duvane, "but that is what the man called them who told me the story. Some call them the good people to avoid vexing them. I think they are called the good people mostly by pious men and women, who say that they are some of the fallen angels.""How is that?""They tell us that when the Lord cast down the rebel angels the chief of them all and the ringleaders went to the place of eternal punishment, but that the Lord stopped His hand while a great many were on the way. Wherever they were when He stopped His hand there they are to this day. Some of these angels are under the earth. others are on the earth, and still others in the air. People say that they are among us at all times, that they know everything that is going on, that they have great hope of being forgiven at the day of judgment by the Lord and restored to heaven, and that if they hadn't that hope they would destroy this world and all that's in it."At this juncture the mason called out, "I will not say whether I think the fairies are fallen angels or who they are, but I remember a case in whic h a woman lost an eye through the fairies.""If you do," said I, "I hope you will tell it.""I will indeed," said he.There was an old woman, a midwife, who lived in a little house by herselfbetween this and Listowel. One evening there was a knock at the door. sheopened it, and what should she see but a man who said she was wanted, andto go with him quickly. He begged her to hurry. She made herself ready atonce, the man waiting outside. When she was ready the man sprang on afine, large horse, and put her up behind him. Away raced the horse then.They went a great distance in such a short time that it seemed to her onlytwo or three miles.They came to a splendid large house and went in. The old woman found abeautiful lady inside. No other woman was to be seen. A child was bornsoon, and the man brought a vial of ointment, told the old woman to rub iton the child, but to have a great care and not touch her own self with it.She obeyed him and had no intention of touching herself, but on a suddenher left eye itched. She raised her hand, and rubbed the eye with onefinger. Some of the ointment was on her finger, and that instant she sawgreat crowds of people around her, men and women. She knew that she was ina fort among fairies, and was frightened, but had courage enough not toshow it, and finished her work.The man came to her then, and said, "I will take you home now."He opened the door, went out, sprang to the saddle, and reached his handto her, but her eye was opened now and she saw that in place of a horse itwas an old plow beam that was before her. She was more in dread then thanever, but took her seat, and away went the plow beam as swiftly as thevery best horse in the kingdom. The man left her down at her own door, andshe saw no more of him.Some time after there was a great fair at Listowel. The old midwife wentto the fair, and there were big crowds of people on every side of her. Theold woman looked around for a while and what did she see but the man whohad taken her away on a plow beam. He was hurrying around, going in andout among the people, and no one knowing he was in it but the old woman.At last the finest young girl at the fair screamed and fell in a faint  the fairy had thrust something into her side. A crowd gathered around theyoung girl. The old woman, who had seen all, made her way to the girl,examined her side, and drew a pin from it. The girl recovered.A little later the fairy made his way to the old woman. "Have you everseen me before?" asked he."Oh, maybe I have," said she."Do you remember that I took you to a fort to attend a young woman?""I do.""When you anointed the child did you touch any part of yourself with theointment I gave you?""I did without knowing it. my eye itched and I rubbed it with my finger.""Which eye?""The left."The moment she said that he struck her left eye and took the sight fromit. She went home blind of one eye, and was that way the rest of her life.