By using a so called wolf strap, any person could transform himselfinto a werewolf. Whoever fastened such a strap around himself would turninto a wolf. If someone called out the name of a person who had turnedhimself into a wolf, that person would regain his human form.In earlier times there were a great many such straps, but today, alongwith the wolves, they seem to have been banned to Russia.A wolf strap was a gift from the devil. A person who possessed such astrap could not get rid of it, however much he wanted to. Anyone whoaccepted a wolf strap also had entered into brotherhood with the devil,surrendering body and soul to him.If real wolves were feared in earlier times, werewolves were feared allthe more. A real wolf could be shot dead or lured into a so called wolfpit, where it would perish from hunger. However, a werewolf could not bebrought down with a rifle bullet, nor would it ever fall into a wolf pit.The reader will perhaps ask, "What is the use of running around as awerewolf?"This was not done for no good reason. When the pantries and meatcontainers were empty, one would only have to fasten on the wolf strap,run off as a wolf, seek out a fat sheep that was wandering off toward theedge of the woods, creep towards it, seize it, and drag it into the woods.In the evening one could bring it home without anyone noticing. Or thewerewolf would know when a peasant was going through the woods with a lotof money. He would ambush him, rob him, then run off across the field withthe booty.In earlier times, after the horses had been unhitched from a wagon or aplow, they would be driven out to a community pasture where they would bewatched until morning by two herdsmen. Even colts were put out for thenight. People took turns watching after them.Now once it happened that one of the two herdsmen had a wolf strap.After both herdsmen had kept watch for several hours they got sleepy andlaid their heads down. The first one, however, who had heard that hiscompanion possessed a wolf strap, only pretended to be asleep, and theother one thought that he was indeed sleeping. He quickly fastened thestrap around himself and ran off as a wolf. The other one got up and sawhow his companion ran up to a colt, attacked it, and devoured it.After this had happened, the wolf man came back and lay down to sleep.Toward morning they both awoke. The werewolf man was rolling around on theground and groaning loudly. The other one asked him what was wrong.He said that he had a horrible stomach ache.To this the first one said, "The devil himself would have a stomachache if he had eaten an entire colt at one time."The werewolf asked him to say nothing about what had happened. He keptsilent about it for a long time, but later he did tell me about it, andnow I too feel free to tell about it, because both men have been dead fora long time.