Once upon a time there lived a stonecutter, who went every day to agreat rock in the side of a big mountain and cut out slabs for gravestonesor for houses. He understood very well the kinds of stones wanted for thedifferent purposes, and as he was a careful workman he had plenty ofcustomers. For a long time he was quite happy and contented, and asked fornothing better than what he had.Now in the mountain dwelt a spirit which now and then appeared to men,and helped them in many ways to become rich and prosperous. Thestonecutter, however, had never seen this spirit, and only shook his head,with an unbelieving air, when anyone spoke of it. But a time was comingwhen he learned to change his opinion.One day the stonecutter carried a gravestone to the house of a richman, and saw there all sorts of beautiful things, of which he had nevereven dreamed. Suddenly his daily work seemed to grow harder and heavier,and he said to himself: "Oh, if only I were a rich man, and could sleep ina bed with silken curtains and golden tassels, how happy I should be!"And a voice answered him: "Your wish is heard. a rich man you shallbe!"At the sound of the voice the stonecutter looked around, but could seenobody. He thought it was all his fancy, and picked up his tools and wenthome, for he did not feel inclined to do any more work that day. But whenhe reached the little house where he lived, he stood still with amazement,for instead of his wooden hut was a stately palace filled with splendidfurniture, and most splendid of all was the bed, in every respect like theone he had envied. He was nearly beside himself with joy, and in his newlife the old one was soon forgotten.It was now the beginning of summer, and each day the sun blazed morefiercely. One morning the heat was so great that the stonecutter couldscarcely breathe, and he determined he would stop at home till theevening. He was rather dull, for he had never learned how to amusehimself, and was peeping through the closed blinds to see what was goingon in the street, when a little carriage passed by, drawn by servantsdressed in blue and silver. In the carriage sat a prince, and over hishead a golden umbrella was held, to protect him from the sun's rays."Oh, if I were only a prince!" said the stonecutter to himself, as thecarriage vanished around the corner. "Oh, if I were only a prince, andcould go in such a carriage and have a golden umbrella held over me, howhappy I should be!"And a prince he was. Before his carriage rode one company of men andanother behind it. servants dressed in scarlet and gold bore him along,the coveted umbrella was held over his head, everything his heart coulddesire was his. But yet it was not enough. He looked around still forsomething to wish for, and when he saw that in spite of the water hepoured on the grass the rays of the sun scorched it, and that in spite ofthe umbrella held over his head each day his face grew browner andbrowner, he cried in his anger: "The sun is mightier than I. oh, if I wereonly the sun!"And the mountain spirit answered: "Your wish is heard. the sun youshall be."And the sun he was, and felt himself proud in his power. He shot hisbeams above and below, on earth and in heaven. he burnt up the grass inthe fields and scorched the faces of princes as well as of poorer folk.but in a short time he began to grow tired of his might, for there seemednothing left for him to do. Discontent once more filled his soul, and whena cloud covered his face, and hid the earth from him, he cried in hisanger: "Does the cloud hold captive my rays, and is it mightier than I?Oh, that I were a cloud, and mightier than any!"And the mountain spirit answered: "Your wish is heard. a cloud youshall be!"And a cloud he was, and lay between the sun and the earth. He caughtthe sun's beams and held them, and to his joy the earth grew green againand flowers blossomed. But that was not enough for him, and for days andweek he poured forth rain till the rivers overflowed their banks, and thecrops of rice stood in water. Towns and villages were destroyed by thepower of the rain, only the great rock on the mountainside remainedunmoved. The cloud was amazed at the sight, and cried in wonder: "Is therock, then, mightier than I? Oh, if I were only the rock!"And the mountain spirit answered. "Your wish is heard. the rock youshall be!"And the rock he was, and gloried in his power. Proudly he stood, andneither the heat of the sun nor the force of the rain could move him."This is better than all!" he said to himself. But one day he heard astrange noise at his feet, and when he looked down to see what it couldbe, he saw a stonecutter driving tools into his surface. Even while helooked a trembling feeling ran all through him, and a great block brokeoff and fell upon the ground. Then he cried in his wrath: "Is a mere childof earth mightier than a rock? Oh, if I were only a man!"And the mountain spirit answered: "Your wish is heard. A man once moreyou shall be!"And a man he was, and in the sweat of his brow he toiled again at histrade of stone cutting. His bed was hard and his food scanty, but he hadlearned to be satisfied with it, and did not long to be something orsomebody else. And as he never asked for things he did not have, ordesired to be greater and mightier than other people, he was happy atlast, and never again heard the voice of the mountain spirit.