Long, long ago in Japan there lived an old man and his wife. The old manwas a good, kindhearted, hardworking old fellow, but his wife was aregular crosspatch, who spoilt the happiness of her home by her scoldingtongue. She was always grumbling about something from morning to night.The old man had for a long time ceased to take any notice of hercrossness. He was out most of the day at work in the fields, and as he hadno child, for his amusement when he came home, he kept a tame sparrow. Heloved the little bird just as much as if she had been his child.When he came back at night after his hard day's work in the open air itwas his only pleasure to pet the sparrow, to talk to her and to teach herlittle tricks, which she learned very quickly. The old man would open hercage and let her fly about the room, and they would play together. Thenwhen suppertime came, he always saved some tit bits from his meal withwhich to feed his little bird.Now one day the old man went out to chop wood in the forest, and the oldwoman stopped at home to wash clothes. The day before, she had made somestarch, and now when she came to look for it, it was all gone. the bowlwhich she had filled full yesterday was quite empty.While she was wondering who could have used or stolen the starch, downflew the pet sparrow, and bowing her little feathered head   a trickwhich she had been taught by her master   the pretty bird chirped andsaid, "It is I who have taken the starch. I thought it was some food putout for me in that basin, and I ate it all. If I have made a mistake I begyou to forgive me! Tweet, tweet, tweet!"You see from this that the sparrow was a truthful bird, and the old womanought to have been willing to forgive her at once when she asked herpardon so nicely. But not so. The old woman had never loved the sparrow,and had often quarreled with her husband for keeping what she called adirty bird about the house, saying that it only made extra work for her.Now she was only too delighted to have some cause of complaint against thepet. She scolded and even cursed the poor little bird for her badbehavior, and not content with using these harsh, unfeeling words, in afit of rage she seized the sparrow   who all this time had spread out herwings and bowed her head before the old woman, to show how sorry she was  and fetched the scissors and cut off the poor little bird's tongue."I suppose you took my starch with that tongue! Now you may see what it islike to go without it!" And with these dreadful words she drove the birdaway, not caring in the least what might happen to it and without thesmallest pity for its suffering, so unkind was she!The old woman, after she had driven the sparrow away, made some more ricepaste, grumbling all the time at the trouble, and after starching all herclothes, spread the things on boards to dry in the sun, instead of ironingthem as they do in England.In the evening the old man came home. As usual, on the way back he lookedforward to the time when he should reach his gate and see his pet comeflying and chirping to meet him, ruffling out her feathers to show herjoy, and at last coming to rest on his shoulder. But tonight the old manwas very disappointed, for not even the shadow of his dear sparrow was tobe seen.He quickened his steps, hastily drew off his straw sandals, and stepped onto the verandah. Still no sparrow was to be seen. He now felt sure thathis wife, in one of her cross tempers, had shut the sparrow up in itscage. So he called her and said anxiously, "Where is Suzume San (MissSparrow) today?"The old woman pretended not to know at first, and answered, "Your sparrow?I am sure I don't know. Now I come to think of it, I haven't seen her allthe afternoon. I shouldn't wonder if the ungrateful bird had flown awayand left you after all your petting!"But at last, when the old man gave her no peace, but asked her again andagain, insisting that she must know what had happened to his pet, sheconfessed all. She told him crossly how the sparrow had eaten the ricepaste she had specially made for starching her clothes, and how when thesparrow had confessed to what she had done, in great anger she had takenher scissors and cut out her tongue, and how finally she had driven thebird away and forbidden her to return to the house again.Then the old woman showed her husband the sparrow's tongue, saying, "Hereis the tongue I cut off! Horrid little bird, why did it eat all my starch?""How could you be so cruel? Oh! how could you be so cruel?" was all thatthe old man could answer. He was too kind hearted to punish his shrew of awife, but he was terribly distressed at what had happened to his poorlittle sparrow."What a dreadful misfortune for my poor Suzume San to lose her tongue!" hesaid to himself. "She won't be able to chirp any more, and surely the painof the cutting of it out in that rough way must have made her ill! Isthere nothing to be done?"The old man shed many tears after his cross wife had gone to sleep. Whilehe wiped away the tears with the sleeve of his cotton robe, a brightthought comforted him: he would go and look for the sparrow on the morrow.Having decided this he was able to go to sleep at last.The next morning he rose early, as soon as ever the day broke, andsnatching a hasty breakfast, started out over the hills and through thewoods, stopping at every clump of bamboos to cry, "Where, oh where does mytongue cut sparrow stay? Where, oh where, does my tongue cut sparrowstay?"He never stopped to rest for his noonday meal, and it was far on in theafternoon when he found himself near a large bamboo wood. Bamboo grovesare the favorite haunts of sparrows, and there sure enough at the edge ofthe wood he saw his own dear sparrow waiting to welcome him. He couldhardly believe his eyes for joy, and ran forward quickly to greet her. Shebowed her little head and went through a number of the tricks her masterhad taught her, to show her pleasure at seeing her old friend again, and,wonderful to relate, she could talk as of old.The old man told her how sorry he was for all that had happened, andinquired after her tongue, wondering how she could speak so well withoutit. Then the sparrow opened her beak and showed him that a new tongue hadgrown in place of the old one, and begged him not to think any more aboutthe past, for she was quite well now.Then the old man knew that hissparrow was a fairy, and no common bird. It would be difficult toexaggerate the old man's rejoicing now. He forgot all his troubles, heforgot even how tired he was, for he had found his lost sparrow, andinstead of being ill and without a tongue as he had feared and expected tofind her, she was well and happy and with a new tongue, and without a signof the ill treatment she had received from his wife. And above all she wasa fairy.The sparrow asked him to follow her, and flying before him she led him toa beautiful house in the heart of the bamboo grove. The old man wasutterly astonished when he entered the house to find what a beautifulplace it was. It was built of the whitest wood, the soft cream coloredmats which took the place of carpets were the finest he had ever seen, andthe cushions that the sparrow brought out for him to sit on were made ofthe finest silk and crape. Beautiful vases and lacquer boxes adorned thetokonoma (alcove) of every room.The sparrow led the old man to the place of honor, and then, taking herplace at a humble distance, she thanked him with many polite bows for allthe kindness he had shown her for many long years.Then the Lady Sparrow, as we will now call her, introduced all her familyto the old man. This done, her daughters, robed in dainty crape gowns,brought in on beautiful old fashioned trays a feast of all kinds ofdelicious foods, till the old man began to think he must be dreaming. Inthe middle of the dinner some of the sparrow's daughters performed awonderful dance, called the suzume odori or the "sparrow's dance,"to amuse the guest.Never had the old man enjoyed himself so much. The hours flew by tooquickly in this lovely spot, with all these fairy sparrows to wait uponhim and to feast him and to dance before him.But the night came on and the darkness reminded him that he had a long wayto go and must think about taking his leave and return home. He thankedhis kind hostess for her splendid entertainment, and begged her for hissake to forget all she had suffered at the hands of his cross old wife. Hetold the Lady Sparrow that it was a great comfort and happiness to him tofind her in such a beautiful home and to know that she wanted for nothing.It was his anxiety to know how she fared and what had really happened toher that had led him to seek her. Now he knew that all was well he couldreturn home with a light heart. If ever she wanted him for anything shehad only to send for him and he would come at once.The Lady Sparrow begged him to stay and rest several days and enjoy thechange, but the old man said that he must return to his old wife   whowould probably be cross at his not coming home at the usual time   and tohis work, and therefore, much as he wished to do so, he could not accepther kind invitation. But now that he knew where the Lady Sparrow lived hewould come to see her whenever he had the time.When the Lady Sparrow saw that she could not persuade the old man to staylonger, she gave an order to some of her servants, and they at oncebrought in two boxes, one large and the other small. These were placedbefore the old man, and the Lady Sparrow asked him to choose whichever heliked for a present, which she wished to give him.The old man could not refuse this kind proposal, and he chose the smallerbox, saying, "I am now too old and feeble to carry the big and heavy box.As you are so kind as to say that I may take whichever I like, I willchoose the small one, which will be easier for me to carry."Then the sparrows all helped him put it on his back and went to the gateto see him off, bidding him good bye with many bows and entreating him tocome again whenever he had the time. Thus the old man and his pet sparrowseparated quite happily, the sparrow showing not the least ill will forall the unkindness she had suffered at the hands of the old wife. Indeed,she only felt sorrow for the old man who had to put up with it all hislife.When the old man reached home he found his wife even crosser than usual,for it was late on in the night and she had been waiting up for him for along time. "Where have you been all this time?" she asked in a big voice."Why do you come back so late?"The old man tried to pacify her by showing her the box of presents he hadbrought back with him, and then he told her of all that had happened tohim, and how wonderfully he had been entertained at the sparrow's house."Now let us see what is in the box," said the old man, not giving her timeto grumble again. "You must help me open it." And they both sat downbefore the box and opened it.To their utter astonishment they found the box filled to the brim withgold and silver coins and many other precious things. The mats of theirlittle cottage fairly glittered as they took out the things one by one andput them down and handled them over and over again. The old man wasoverjoyed at the sight of the riches that were now his. Beyond hisbrightest expectations was the sparrow's gift, which would enable him togive up work and live in ease and comfort the rest of his days.He said, "Thanks to my good little sparrow! Thanks to my good littlesparrow!" many times.But the old woman, after the first moments of surprise and satisfaction atthe sight of the gold and silver were over, could not suppress the greedof her wicked nature. She now began to reproach the old man for not havingbrought home the big box of presents, for in the innocence of his heart hehad told her how he had refused the large box of presents which thesparrows had offered him, preferring the smaller one because it was lightand easy to carry home."You silly old man," said she, "why did you not bring the large box? Justthink what we have lost. We might have had twice as much silver and goldas this. You are certainly an old fool!" she screamed, and then went tobed as angry as she could be.The old man now wished that he had said nothing about the big box, but itwas too late. the greedy old woman, not contented with the good luck whichhad so unexpectedly befallen them and which she so little deserved, madeup her mind, if possible, to get more.Early the next morning she got up a made the old man describe the way tothe sparrow's house. When he saw what was in her mind he tried to keep herfrom going, but it was useless. She would not listen to one word he said.It is strange that the old woman did not feel ashamed of going to see thesparrow after the cruel way she had treated her in cutting off her tonguein a fit of rage. But her greed to get the big box made her forgeteverything else. It did not even enter her thoughts that the sparrowsmight be angry with her   as, indeed, they were   and might punish herfor what she had done.Ever since the Lady Sparrow had returned home in the sad plight in whichthey had first found her, weeping and bleeding from the mouth, her wholefamily and relations had done little else but speak of the cruelty of theold woman. "How could she," they asked each other, "inflict such a heavypunishment for such a trifling offence as that of eating some rice pasteby mistake?" They all loved the old man who was so kind and good andpatient under all his troubles, but the old woman they hated, and theydetermined, if ever they had the chance, to punish her as she deserved.They had not long to wait.After walking for some hours the old woman had at last found the bamboogrove which she had made her husband carefully describe, and now she stoodbefore it crying out, "Where is the tongue cut sparrow's house? Where isthe tongue cut sparrow's house?"At last she saw the eaves of the house peeping out from amongst the bamboofoliage. She hastened to the door and knocked loudly.When the servants told the Lady Sparrow that her old mistress was at thedoor asking to see her, she was somewhat surprised at the unexpectedvisit, after all that had taken place, and she wondered not a little atthe boldness of the old woman in venturing to come to the house. The LadySparrow, however, was a polite bird, and so she went out to greet the oldwoman, remembering that she had once been her mistress.The old woman intended, however, to waste no time in words, she went rightto the point, without the least shame, and said, "You need not trouble toentertain me as you did my old man. I have come myself to get the boxwhich he so stupidly left behind. I shall soon take my leave if you willgive me the big box. That is all I want!"The Lady Sparrow at once consented, and told her servants to bring out thebig box. The old woman eagerly seized it and hoisted it on her back, andwithout even stopping to thank the Lady Sparrow began to hurry homewards.The box was so heavy that she could not walk fast, much less run, as shewould have liked to do, so anxious was she to get home and see what wasinside the box, but she had often to sit down and rest herself by the way.While she was staggering along under the heavy load, her desire to openthe box became too great to be resisted. She could wait no longer, for shesupposed this big box to be full of gold and silver and precious jewelslike the small one her husband had received.At last this greedy and selfish old woman put down the box by the waysideand opened it carefully, expecting to gloat her eyes on a mine of wealth.What she saw, however, so terrified her that she nearly lost her senses.As soon as she lifted the lid, a number of horrible and frightful lookingdemons bounced out of the box and surrounded her as if they intended tokill her. Not even in nightmares had she ever seen such horrible creaturesas her much coveted box contained. A demon with one huge eye right in themiddle of its forehead came and glared at her, monsters with gaping mouthslooked as if they would devour her, a huge snake coiled and hissed abouther, and a big frog hopped and croaked towards her.The old woman had never been so frightened in her life, and ran from thespot as fast as her quaking legs would carry her, glad to escape alive.When she reached home she fell to the floor and told her husband withtears all that had happened to her, and how she had been nearly killed bythe demons in the box.Then she began to blame the sparrow, but the old man stopped her at once,saying, "Don't blame the sparrow, it is your wickedness which has at lastmet with its reward. I only hope this may be a lesson to you in thefuture!"The old woman said nothing more, and from that day she repented of hercross, unkind ways, and by degrees became a good old woman, so that herhusband hardly knew her to be the same person, and they spent their lastdays together happily, free from want or care, spending carefully thetreasure the old man had received from his pet, the tongue cut sparrow.