There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow.They had three children, and my story happened while the youngest was onthe breast.The wife was a good wife enough, but her mind was all on her family andher farm, and she hardly ever went to her knees without falling asleep,and she thought the time spent in the chapel was twice as long as it needbe. So, begonies, she let her man and her two children go before her oneday to mass, while she called to consult a fairy man about a disorder oneof her cows had. She was late at the chapel, and was sorry all the dayafter, for her husband was in grief about it, and she was very fond ofhim.Late that night he was wakened up by the cries of his children callingout, "Mother, mother!" When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was nowife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become oftheir mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men andwomen, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middleof them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Out heran, and searched everywhere round the house, but neither tale nor tidingsdid he got of her for many a day.We.. the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his womanas she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to seehis poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, and they'd bebad enough only for a kind neighbor that used to look in whenever shecould spare time. The infant was out with a wet nurse.About six weeks after   just as he was going out to his work onemorning   a neighbor, that used to mind women at their lying in, came upto him, and kept step by step with him to the field, and this is what shetold him:Just as I was falling asleep last night I hears a horse's tramp in thebawn, and a knock at the door, and there, when I cam out, was afine looking dark man mounted on a black horse, and he told me to getready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. As soon as I puton my cloak and things, he took me by the hand, and I was sitting behindhim before I felt myself stirring."Where are we going, sir?" says I."You'll soon know," says he, and he drew his fingers across my eyes,and not a stim remained in them.I kept a tight grip of him, and the dickens a knew I knew whether hewas going backwards or forwards, or how long we were about it, till myhand was taken again, and I felt the ground under me. The fingers went theother way across my eyes, and there we were before a castle door, and inwe went through a big hall and great rooms all painted in fine greencolors, with red and gold bands and ornaments, and the finest carpets andchairs and tables and window curtains, and fine ladies and gentlemenwalking about.At last we came to a bedroom, with a beautiful lady in bed, and therehe left me with her. and, bedad, it was not long till a fine bouncing boycame into the world. The lady clapped her hands, and in came FearDoircha (Dark Man), and kissed her and his son, and praised me, andgave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over.Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough. but my right eye began to smartme, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and purshuin to me if ever Iwas so frightened.The beautiful room was a big rough cave, with water oozing over theedges of the stones and through the clay. And the lady, and the lord, andthe child, wizened, poverty bitten creatures   nothing but skin and bone,and the rich dresses were old rags.I didn't let on that I found any difference, and after a bit saysFear Doircha , "Go before me to the hall door, and I will be withyou in a few moments and see you safe home."Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see but poorMolly. She looked round all frightened and says to me in a whisper, "I'mbrought here to give suck to the child of the king and the queen of thefairies. But there is one chance of saving me. All the court will pass thecross near Templeshambo next Friday night on a visit to the fairies of OldRoss. If John can catch me by hand or cloak when I ride by, and hascourage not to let go his grip, I'll be safe. Here's the king. Don't openyour mouth to answer. I saw what happened with the ointment."Fear Doircha didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and heseemed to have no suspicion of me. When we came out I looked about me, andwhere do you think we were but in the dike of the Rath of Cromogue. I wason the horse again, which was nothing but a big boolian bui(ragweed), and I was in dread every minute I'd fall off. But nothinghappened till I found myself in my own bawn.The king slipped five guineas into my hand as soon as I was on theground, and thanked me, and bade me good night. I hope I'll never see hisface again. I got into bed and couldn't sleep for a long time. And when Iexamined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer thelast thing, I found five withered leaves of oak   bad scran to thegiver!"Well, you may all think the fright, and the joy, and the grief the poorman was in when the woman finished her story. They talked, and theytalked, but we needn't mind what they said till Friday night came, whenboth were standing where the mountain road crosses the one going toRoss.There they stood looking toward the bridge of Thuar, and I won't keepyou waiting, as they were in the dead of the night, with a littlemoonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid.At last she gave a start, and "By this and by that," says she, "herethey come, bridles jingling, and feathers tossing."He looked, but could see nothing. And she stood trembling, and her eyeswide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. "I see yourwife," says she, "riding on the outside just so as to rub against us.We'll walk on promiskis like, as if we suspected nothing, and when we arepassing I'll give you a shove. If you don't do your duty then,dickens cure you!"Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both theirbreasts. and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle, andtramping, and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. Hespread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and hecould see her plain, but such a hullabaloo rose as if there was anearthquake. and he found himself surrounded by horrible looking things,roaring at him, and striving to pull his wife away. But he made the signof the cross, and bid them be gone in God's name, and held his wife as ifit was iron his arms were made of. Bedad, in one moment everything was assilent as the grave, and the poor woman lying in a faint in the arms ofher husband and her good neighbor.Well, all in good time she was minding her family and her businessagain, and I'll go bail, after the fright she got, she spent more time onher knees, and avoided fairy men all the days of the week, andparticularly Sunday.It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without gettinga mark from them. My brave midwife didn't escape no more nor another. Shewas one Thursday at the market of Enniscorthy, when what did she seewalking among the tubs of butter but Fear Doirche , very hungrylooking, and taking a scoop out of one tub and out of another."Oh, sir," says she, very foolish, "I hope your lady is well, and theyoung heir.""Pretty well, thank you," says he, rather frightened like. "How do Ilook in this new suit?" says he, getting to one side of her."I can't see you plain at all, sir," says she."Well, now," says he, getting round her back to the other side."Musha, indeed, sir, your coat looks no better nor a withereddock leaf.""Maybe, then," says he, "it will be different now," and he struck theeye next him with a switch.Begonies, she never saw a stim after with that one till the dayof her death.