Once upon a time lived a poor prince. his kingdom was verysmall, but it was large enough to enable him to marry, and marry hewould. It was rather bold of him that he went and asked theemperor's daughter: "Will you marry me?" but he ventured to do so, forhis name was known far and wide, and there were hundreds of princesseswho would have gladly accepted him, but would she do so? Now weshall see.On the grave of the prince's father grew a rose tree, the mostbeautiful of its kind. It bloomed only once in five years, and then ithad only one single rose upon it, but what a rose! It had such a sweetscent that one instantly forgot all sorrow and grief when one smeltit. He had also a nightingale, which could sing as if every sweetmelody was in its throat. This rose and the nightingale he wished togive to the princess. and therefore both were put into big silvercases and sent to her.The emperor ordered them to be carried into the great hall wherethe princess was just playing "Visitors are coming" with herladies in waiting. when she saw the large cases with the presentstherein, she clapped her hands for joy."I wish it were a little pussy cat," she said. But then therose tree with the beautiful rose was unpacked."Oh, how nicely it is made," exclaimed the ladies."It is more than nice," said the emperor, "it is charming."The princess touched it and nearly began to cry."For shame, pa," she said, "it is not artificial, it is natural!""For shame, it is natural," repeated all her ladies."Let us first see what the other case contains before we areangry," said the emperor. then the nightingale was taken out, and itsang so beautifully that no one could possibly say anything unkindabout it."Superbe, charmant," said the ladies of the court, for they allprattled French, one worse than the other."How much the bird reminds me of the musical box of the latelamented empress," said an old courtier, "it has exactly the sametone, the same execution.""You are right," said the emperor, and began to cry like alittle child."I hope it is not natural," said the princess."Yes, certainly it is natural," replied those who had broughtthe presents."Then let it fly," said the princess, and refused to see theprince.But the prince was not discouraged. He painted his face, put oncommon clothes, pulled his cap over his forehead, and came back."Good day, emperor," he said, "could you not give me someemployment at the court?""There are so many," replied the emperor, "who apply for places,that for the present I have no vacancy, but I will remember you. Butwait a moment. it just comes into my mind, I require somebody tolook after my pigs, for I have a great many."Thus the prince was appointed imperial swineherd, and as such helived in a wretchedly small room near the pigsty. there he workedall day long, and when it was night he had made a pretty little pot.There were little bells round the rim, and when the water began toboil in it, the bells began to play the old tune:"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty,Three little piggies had she,"  c.But what was more wonderful was that, when one put a finger into thesteam rising from the pot, one could at once smell what meals theywere preparing on every fire in the whole town. That was indeed muchmore remarkable than the rose. When the princess with her ladiespassed by and heard the tune, she stopped and looked quite pleased,for she also could play it in fact, it was the only tune she couldplay, and she played it with one finger."That is the tune I know," she exclaimed. "He must be awell educated swineherd. Go and ask him how much the instrument is."One of the ladies had to go and ask. but she put on pattens."What will you take for your pot?" asked the lady."I will have ten kisses from the princess," said the swineherd."God forbid," said the lady."Well, I cannot sell it for less," replied the swineherd."What did he say?" said the princess."I really cannot tell you," replied the lady."You can whisper it into my ear.""It is very naughty," said the princess, and walked off.But when she had gone a little distance, the bells rang again sosweetly:"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty,Three little piggies had she,"  c."Ask him," said the princess, "if he will be satisfied with tenkisses from one of my ladies.""No, thank you," said the swineherd: "ten kisses from theprincess, or I keep my pot.""That is tiresome," said the princess. "But you must standbefore me, so that nobody can see it."The ladies placed themselves in front of her and spread outtheir dresses, and she gave the swineherd ten kisses and receivedthe pot.That was a pleasure! Day and night the water in the pot wasboiling. there was not a single fire in the whole town of which theydid not know what was preparing on it, the chamberlain's as well asthe shoemaker's. The ladies danced and clapped their hands for joy."We know who will eat soup and pancakes. we know who will eatporridge and cutlets. oh, how interesting!""Very interesting, indeed," said the mistress of the household."But you must not betray me, for I am the emperor's daughter.""Of course not," they all said.The swineherd that is to say, the prince but they did not knowotherwise than that he was a real swineherd did not waste a singleday without doing something. he made a rattle, which, when turnedquickly round, played all the waltzes, galops, and polkas knownsince the creation of the world."But that is superbe," said the princess passing by. "I have neverheard a more beautiful composition. Go down and ask him what theinstrument costs. but I shall not kiss him again.""He will have a hundred kisses from the princess," said thelady, who had gone down to ask him."I believe he is mad," said the princess, and walked off, but soonshe stopped. "One must encourage art," she said. "I am the emperor'sdaughter! Tell him I will give him ten kisses, as I did the other day.the remainder one of my ladies can give him."But we do not like to kiss him," said the ladies."That is nonsense," said the princess. "if I can kiss him, you canalso do it. Remember that I give you food and employment." And thelady had to go down once more."A hundred kisses from the princess," said the swineherd, "oreverybody keeps his own.""Place yourselves before me," said the princess then. They didas they were bidden, and the princess kissed him."I wonder what that crowd near the pigsty means!" said theemperor, who had just come out on his balcony. He rubbed his eyesand put his spectacles on."The ladies of the court are up to some mischief, I think. I shallhave to go down and see." He pulled up his shoes, for they were downat the heels, and he was very quick about it. When he had come downinto the courtyard he walked quite softly, and the ladies were sobusily engaged in counting the kisses, that all should be fair, thatthey did not notice the emperor. He raised himself on tiptoe."What does this mean?" he said, when he saw that his daughterwas kissing the swineherd, and then hit their heads with his shoe justas the swineherd received the sixty eighth kiss."Go out of my sight," said the emperor, for he was very angry. andboth the princess and the swineherd were banished from the empire.There she stood and cried, the swineherd scolded her, and the raincame down in torrents."Alas, unfortunate creature that I am!" said the princess, "I wishI had accepted the prince. Oh, how wretched I am!"The swineherd went behind a tree, wiped his face, threw off hispoor attire and stepped forth in his princely garments. he looked sobeautiful that the princess could not help bowing to him."I have now learnt to despise you," he said. "You refused anhonest prince. you did not appreciate the rose and the nightingale.but you did not mind kissing a swineherd for his toys. you have no onebut yourself to blame!"And then he returned into his kingdom and left her behind. Shecould now sing at her leisure:"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty,Three little piggies has she,"  c.