Translated from the German of Hans Andersen.There was once a merchant who was so rich that he could have pavedthe whole street, and perhaps even a little side street besides, withsilver. But he did not do that. he knew another way of spending hismoney. If he spent a shilling he got back a florin such an excellentmerchant he was till he died.Now his son inherited all this money. He lived very merrily. he wentevery night to the theatre, made paper kites out of five pound notes,and played ducks and drakes with sovereigns instead of stones. In thisway the money was likely to come soon to an end, and so it did.At last he had nothing left but four shillings, and he had no clothesexcept a pair of slippers and an old dressing gown.His friends did not trouble themselves any more about him. they wouldnot even walk down the street with him.But one of them who was rather good natured sent him an old trunk withthe message, 'Pack up!" That was all very well, but he had nothing topack up, so he got into the trunk himself.It was an enchanted trunk, for as soon as the lock was pressed it couldfly. He pressed it, and away he flew in it up the chimney, high into theclouds, further and further away. But whenever the bottom gave a littlecreak he was in terror lest the trunk should go to pieces, for then hewould have turned a dreadful somersault just think of it!In this way he arrived at the land of the Turks. He hid the trunk in awood under some dry leaves, and then walked into the town. He coulddo that quite well, for all the Turks were dressed just as he was in adressing gown and slippers.He met a nurse with a little child.'Halloa! you Turkish nurse,' said he, 'what is that great castle thereclose to the town? The one with the windows so high up?''The sultan's daughter lives there,' she replied. 'It is prophesied thatshe will be very unlucky in her husband, and so no one is allowed to seeher except when the sultan and sultana are by.''Thank you,' said the merchant's son, and he went into the wood, sathimself in his trunk, flew on to the roof, and crept through the windowinto the princess's room.She was lying on the sofa asleep, and was so beautiful that the youngmerchant had to kiss her. Then she woke up and was very much frightened,but he said he was a Turkish god who had come through the air to seeher, and that pleased her very much.They sat close to each other, and he told her a story about her eyes.They were beautiful dark lakes in which her thoughts swam about likemermaids. And her forehead was a snowy mountain, grand and shining.These were lovely stories.Then he asked the princess to marry him, and she said yes at once.'But you must come here on Saturday,' she said, 'for then the sultan andthe sultana are coming to tea with me. They will be indeed proud thatI receive the god of the Turks. But mind you have a really good storyready, for my parents like them immensely. My mother likes somethingrather moral and high flown, and my father likes something merry to makehim laugh.''Yes, I shall only bring a fairy story for my dowry,' said he, and sothey parted. But the princess gave him a sabre set with gold pieceswhich he could use.Then he flew away, bought himself a new dressing gown, and sat downin the wood and began to make up a story, for it had to be ready bySaturday, and that was no easy matter.When he had it ready it was Saturday.The sultan, the sultana, and the whole court were at tea with theprincess.He was most graciously received.'Will you tell us a story?' said the sultana. 'one that is thoughtfuland instructive?''But something that we can laugh at,' said the sultan.'Oh, certainly,' he replied, and began: 'Now, listen attentively. Therewas once a box of matches which lay between a tinder box and an old ironpot, and they told the story of their youth.'"We used to be on the green fir boughs. Every morning and eveningwe had diamond tea, which was the dew, and the whole day long we hadsunshine, and the little birds used to tell us stories. We were veryrich, because the other trees only dressed in summer, but we had greendresses in summer and in winter. Then the woodcutter came, and ourfamily was split up. We have now the task of making light for the lowestpeople. That is why we grand people are in the kitchen."'"My fate was quite different," said the iron pot, near which thematches lay.'"Since I came into the world I have been many times scoured, and havecooked much. My only pleasure is to have a good chat with my companionswhen I am lying nice and clean in my place after dinner."'"Now you are talking too fast," spluttered the fire.'"Yes, let us decide who is the grandest!" said the matches.'"No, I don't like talking about myself," said the pot.'"Let us arrange an evening's entertainment. I will tell the story of mylife.'"On the Baltic by the Danish shore "'What a beautiful beginning!" said all the plates. "That's a story thatwill please us all."'And the end was just as good as the beginning. All the plates clatteredfor joy.'"Now I will dance," said the tongs, and she danced. Oh! how high shecould kick!'The old chair cover in the corner split when he saw her.'The urn would have sung but she said she had a cold. she could not singunless she boiled.'In the window was an old quill pen. There was nothing remarkable abouther except that she had been dipped too deeply into the ink. But she wasvery proud of that.'"If the urn will not sing," said she, "outside the door hangs anightingale in a cage who will sing."'"I don't think it's proper," said the kettle, "that such a foreign birdshould be heard."'"Oh, let us have some acting," said everyone. "Do let us!"'Suddenly the door opened and the maid came in. Everyone was quitequiet. There was not a sound. But each pot knew what he might have done,and how grand he was.'The maid took the matches and lit the fire with them. How theyspluttered and flamed, to be sure! "Now everyone can see," they thought,"that we are the grandest! How we sparkle! What a light "'But here they were burnt out.''That was a delightful story!' said the sultana. 'I quite feel myself inthe kitchen with the matches. Yes, now you shall marry our daughter.''Yes, indeed,' said the sultan, 'you shall marry our daughter onMonday.' And they treated the young man as one of the family.The wedding was arranged, and the night before the whole town wasilluminated.Biscuits and gingerbreads were thrown among the people, the street boysstood on tiptoe crying hurrahs and whistling through their fingers. Itwas all splendid.'Now I must also give them a treat,' thought the merchant's son. Andso he bought rockets, crackers, and all the kinds of fireworks you canthink of, put them in his trunk, and flew up with them into the air.Whirr r r, how they fizzed and blazed!All the Turks jumped so high that their slippers flew above their heads.such a splendid glitter they had never seen before.Now they could quite well understand that it was the god of the Turkshimself who was to marry the princess.As soon as the young merchant came down again into the wood with histrunk he thought, 'Now I will just go into the town to see how the showhas taken.'And it was quite natural that he should want to do this.Oh! what stories the people had to tell!Each one whom he asked had seen it differently, but they had all foundit beautiful.'I saw the Turkish god himself,' said one. 'He had eyes like glitteringstars, and a beard like foaming water.''He flew away in a cloak of fire,' said another. They were splendidthings that he heard, and the next day was to be his wedding day.Then he went back into the wood to sit in his trunk. but what had becomeof it? The trunk had been burnt. A spark of the fireworks had set italight, and the trunk was in ashes. He could no longer fly, and couldnever reach his bride.She stood the whole day long on the roof and waited. perhaps she iswaiting there still.But he wandered through the world and told stories. though they are notso merry as the one he told about the matches.