Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, atraveling monkey man, who earned his living by taking round a monkey andshowing off the animal's tricks. One evening the man came home in a verybad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning.The wife was very bewildered and asked her husband, "Why do you wish me tosend for the butcher?"" It's no use taking that monkey round any longer, he's too old andforgets his tricks. I beat him with my stick all I know how, but he won'tdance properly. I must now sell him to the butcher and make what money outof him I can. There is nothing else to be done."The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for herhusband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man wasdetermined to sell him to the butcher.Now the monkey was in the next room and overheard every word of theconversation. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said tohimself, "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Here I have served himfaithfully for years, and instead of allowing me to end my dayscomfortably and in peace, he is going to let me be cut up by the butcher,and my poor body is to be roasted and stewed and eaten? Woe is me! What amI to do. Ah! A bright thought has struck me! There is, I know, a wild boarliving in the forest nearby. I have often heard tell of his wisdom.Perhaps if I go to him and tell him the strait I am in he will give me hiscounsel. I will go and try."There was no time to lose. The monkey slipped out of the house and ran asquickly as he could to the forest to find the boar. The boar was at home,and the monkey began his tale of woe at once. "Good Mr. Boar, I have heardof your excellent wisdom. I am in great trouble, you alone can help me. Ihave grown old in the service of my master, and because I cannot danceproperly now he intends to sell me to the butcher. What do you advise meto do? I know how clever you are!"The boar was pleased at the flattery and determined to help the monkey. Hethought for a little while and then said, "Hasn't your master a baby?""Oh, yes," said the monkey, "he has one infant son."" Doesn't it lie by the door in the morning when your mistress begins thework of the day? Well, I will come round early and when I see myopportunity I will seize the child and run off with it.""What then?" said the monkey."Why the mother will be in a tremendous scare, and before your master andmistress know what to do, you must run after me and rescue the child andtake it home safely to its parents, and you will see that when the butchercomes they won't have the heart to sell you."The monkey thanked the boar many times and then went home. He did notsleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. Hislife depended on whether the boar's plan succeeded or not. He was thefirst up, waiting anxiously for what was to happen. It seemed to him avery long time before his master's wife began to move about and open theshutters to let in the light of day.Then all happened as the boar had planned. The mother placed her childnear the porch as usual while she tidied up the house and got herbreakfast ready.The child was crooning happily in the morning sunlight, dabbing on themats at the play of light and shadow. Suddenly there was a noise in theporch and a loud cry from the child. The mother ran out from the kitchento the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through thegate with her child in its clutch. She flung out her hands with a loud cryof despair and rushed into the inner room where her husband was stillsleeping soundly. He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes, and crosslydemanded what his wife was making all the noise about. By the time thatthe man was alive to what had happened, and they both got outside thegate, the boar had got well away, got outside the gate, the boar had gotwell away, but they saw the monkey running after the thief as hard as hislegs would carry him. Both the man and wife were moved to admiration atthe plucky conduct of the sagacious monkey, and their gratitude knew nobounds when the faithful monkey brought the child safely back to theirarms." There!" said the wife. "This is the animal you want to kill   if themonkey hadn't been here we should have lost our child forever.""You are right, wife, for once," said the man as he carried the child intothe house. "You may send the butcher back when he comes, and now give usall a good breakfast and the monkey too."When the butcher arrived he was sent away with an order for some boar'smeat for the evening dinner, and the monkey was petted and lived the restof his days in peace, nor did his master ever strike him again.