There was once a king's son who had a larger and more beautifulcollection of books than any one else in the world, and full ofsplendid copper plate engravings. He could read and obtain informationrespecting every people of every land. but not a word could he find toexplain the situation of the garden of paradise, and this was justwhat he most wished to know. His grandmother had told him when hewas quite a little boy, just old enough to go to school, that eachflower in the garden of paradise was a sweet cake, that the pistilswere full of rich wine, that on one flower history was written, onanother geography or tables. so those who wished to learn theirlessons had only to eat some of the cakes, and the more they ate,the more history, geography, or tables they knew. He believed it allthen. but as he grew older, and learnt more and more, he became wiseenough to understand that the splendor of the garden of paradisemust be very different to all this. "Oh, why did Eve pluck the fruitfrom the tree of knowledge? why did Adam eat the forbidden fruit?"thought the king's son: "if I had been there it would never havehappened, and there would have been no sin in the world." The gardenof paradise occupied all his thoughts till he reached hisseventeenth year.One day he was walking alone in the wood, which was his greatestpleasure, when evening came on. The clouds gathered, and the rainpoured down as if the sky had been a waterspout. and it was as dark asthe bottom of a well at midnight. sometimes he slipped over the smoothgrass, or fell over stones that projected out of the rocky ground.Every thing was dripping with moisture, and the poor prince had nota dry thread about him. He was obliged at last to climb over greatblocks of stone, with water spurting from the thick moss. He beganto feel quite faint, when he heard a most singular rushing noise,and saw before him a large cave, from which came a blaze of light.In the middle of the cave an immense fire was burning, and a noblestag, with its branching horns, was placed on a spit between thetrunks of two pine trees. It was turning slowly before the fire, andan elderly woman, as large and strong as if she had been a man indisguise, sat by, throwing one piece of wood after another into theflames."Come in," she said to the prince. "sit down by the fire and dryyourself.""There is a great draught here," said the prince, as he seatedhimself on the ground."It will be worse when my sons come home," replied the woman. "youare now in the cavern of the Winds, and my sons are the four Windsof heaven: can you understand that?""Where are your sons?" asked the prince."It is difficult to answer stupid questions," said the woman."My sons have plenty of business on hand. they are playing atshuttlecock with the clouds up yonder in the king's hall," and shepointed upwards."Oh, indeed," said the prince. "but you speak more roughly andharshly and are not so gentle as the women I am used to.""Yes, that is because they have nothing else to do. but I amobliged to be harsh, to keep my boys in order, and I can do it,although they are so head strong. Do you see those four sackshanging on the wall? Well, they are just as much afraid of thosesacks, as you used to be of the rat behind the looking glass. I canbend the boys together, and put them in the sacks without anyresistance on their parts, I can tell you. There they stay, and darenot attempt to come out until I allow them to do so. And here comesone of them."It was the North Wind who came in, bringing with him a cold,piercing blast. large hailstones rattled on the floor, andsnowflakes were scattered around in all directions. He wore a bearskindress and cloak. His sealskin cap was drawn over his ears, longicicles hung from his beard, and one hailstone after another rolledfrom the collar of his jacket."Don't go too near the fire," said the prince, "or your handsand face will be frost bitten.""Frost bitten!" said the North Wind, with a loud laugh. "why frostis my greatest delight. What sort of a little snip are you, and howdid you find your way to the cavern of the Winds?""He is my guest," said the old woman, "and if you are notsatisfied with that explanation you can go into the sack. Do youunderstand me?"That settled the matter. So the North Wind began to relate hisadventures, whence he came, and where he had been for a whole month."I come from the polar seas," he said. "I have been on the Bear'sIsland with the Russian walrus hunters. I sat and slept at the helm oftheir ship, as they sailed away from North Cape. Sometimes when Iwoke, the storm birds would fly about my legs. They are curious birds.they give one flap with their wings, and then on their outstretchedpinions soar far away."Don't make such a long story of it," said the mother of thewinds. "what sort of a place is Bear's Island?""A very beautiful place, with a floor for dancing as smooth andflat as a plate. Half melted snow, partly covered with moss, sharpstones, and skeletons of walruses and polar bears, lie all about,their gigantic limbs in a state of green decay. It would seem as ifthe sun never shone there. I blew gently, to clear away the mist,and then I saw a little hut, which had been built from the wood of awreck, and was covered with the skins of the walrus, the fleshy sideoutwards. it looked green and red, and on the roof sat a growlingbear. Then I went to the sea shore, to look after birds' nests, andsaw the unfledged nestlings opening their mouths and screaming forfood. I blew into the thousand little throats, and quickly stoppedtheir screaming. Farther on were the walruses with pig's heads, andteeth a yard long, rolling about like great worms."You relate your adventures very well, my son," said the mother,"it makes my mouth water to hear you."After that," continued the North Wind, "the hunting commenced.The harpoon was flung into the breast of the walrus, so that a smokingstream of blood spurted forth like a fountain, and besprinkled theice. Then I thought of my own game. I began to blow, and set my ownships, the great icebergs sailing, so that they might crush the boats.Oh, how the sailors howled and cried out! but I howled louder thanthey. They were obliged to unload their cargo, and throw theirchests and the dead walruses on the ice. Then I sprinkled snow overthem, and left them in their crushed boats to drift southward, andto taste salt water. They will never return to Bear's Island.""So you have done mischief," said the mother of the Winds."I shall leave others to tell the good I have done," he replied."But here comes my brother from the West. I like him best of all,for he has the smell of the sea about him, and brings in a cold, freshair as he enters.""Is that the little Zephyr?" asked the prince."Yes, it is the little Zephyr," said the old woman. "but he is notlittle now. In years gone by he was a beautiful boy. now that is allpast."He came in, looking like a wild man, and he wore a slouched hat toprotect his head from injury. In his hand he carried a club, cutfrom a mahogany tree in the American forests, not a trifle to carry."Whence do you come?" asked the mother."I come from the wilds of the forests, where the thorny bramblesform thick hedges between the trees. where the water snake lies in thewet grass, and mankind seem to be unknown.""What were you doing there?""I looked into the deep river, and saw it rushing down from therocks. The water drops mounted to the clouds and glittered in therainbow. I saw the wild buffalo swimming in the river, but thestrong tide carried him away amidst a flock of wild ducks, whichflew into the air as the waters dashed onwards, leaving the buffalo tobe hurled over the waterfall. This pleased me. so I raised a storm,which rooted up old trees, and sent them floating down the river.""And what else have you done?" asked the old woman."I have rushed wildly across the savannahs. I have stroked thewild horses, and shaken the cocoa nuts from the trees. Yes, I havemany stories to relate. but I need not tell everything I know. Youknow it all very well, don't you, old lady?" And he kissed hismother so roughly, that she nearly fell backwards. Oh, he was, indeed,a wild fellow.Now in came the South Wind, with a turban and a flowing Bedouincloak."How cold it is here!" said he, throwing more wood on the fire."It is easy to feel that the North Wind has arrived here before me.""Why it is hot enough here to roast a bear," said the North Wind."You are a bear yourself," said the other."Do you want to be put in the sack, both of you?" said the oldwoman. "Sit down, now, on that stone, yonder, and tell me where youhave been.""In Africa, mother. I went out with the Hottentots, who werelion hunting in the Kaffir land, where the plains are covered withgrass the color of a green olive. and here I ran races with theostrich, but I soon outstripped him in swiftness. At last I came tothe desert, in which lie the golden sands, looking like the bottomof the sea. Here I met a caravan, and the travellers had just killedtheir last camel, to obtain water. there was very little for them, andthey continued their painful journey beneath the burning sun, and overthe hot sands, which stretched before them a vast, boundless desert.Then I rolled myself in the loose sand, and whirled it in burningcolumns over their heads. The dromedarys stood still in terror,while the merchants drew their caftans over their heads, and threwthemselves on the ground before me, as they do before Allah, theirgod. Then I buried them beneath a pyramid of sand, which covers themall. When I blow that away on my next visit, the sun will bleach theirbones, and travellers will see that others have been there beforethem. otherwise, in such a wild desert, they might not believe itpossible.""So you have done nothing but evil," said the mother. "Into thesack with you." and, before he was aware, she had seized the SouthWind round the body, and popped him into the bag. He rolled about onthe floor, till she sat herself upon him to keep him still."These boys of yours are very lively," said the prince."Yes," she replied, "but I know how to correct them, whennecessary. and here comes the fourth." In came the East Wind,dressed like a Chinese."Oh, you come from that quarter, do you?" said she. "I thought youhad been to the garden of paradise.""I am going there to morrow," he replied. "I have not been therefor a hundred years. I have just come from China, where I danced roundthe porcelain tower till all the bells jingled again. In the streetsan official flogging was taking place, and bamboo canes were beingbroken on the shoulders of men of every high position, from thefirst to the ninth grade. They cried, 'Many thanks, my fatherlybenefactor.' but I am sure the words did not come from their hearts,so I rang the bells till they sounded, 'ding, ding dong.'""You are a wild boy," said the old woman. "it is well for you thatyou are going to morrow to the garden of paradise. you always getimproved in your education there. Drink deeply from the fountain ofwisdom while you are there, and bring home a bottleful for me.""That I will," said the East Wind. "but why have you put mybrother South in a bag? Let him out. for I want him to tell me aboutthe phoenix bird. The princess always wants to hear of this birdwhen I pay her my visit every hundred years. If you will open thesack, sweetest mother, I will give you two pocketfuls of tea, greenand fresh as when I gathered it from the spot where it grew.""Well, for the sake of the tea, and because you are my own boy,I will open the bag."She did so, and the South Wind crept out, looking quite cast down,because the prince had seen his disgrace."There is a palm leaf for the princess," he said. "The oldphoenix, the only one in the world, gave it to me himself. He hasscratched on it with his beak the whole of his history during thehundred years he has lived. She can there read how the old phoenix setfire to his own nest, and sat upon it while it was burning, like aHindoo widow. The dry twigs around the nest crackled and smoked tillthe flames burst forth and consumed the phoenix to ashes. Amidst thefire lay an egg, red hot, which presently burst with a loud report,and out flew a young bird. He is the only phoenix in the world, andthe king over all the other birds. He has bitten a hole in the leafwhich I give you, and that is his greeting to the princess.""Now let us have something to eat," said the mother of theWinds. So they all sat down to feast on the roasted stag. and as theprince sat by the side of the East Wind, they soon became goodfriends."Pray tell me," said the prince, "who is that princess of whom youhave been talking! and where lies the garden of paradise?""Ho! ho!" said the East Wind, "would you like to go there? Well,you can fly off with me to morrow. but I must tell you one thing nohuman being has been there since the time of Adam and Eve. I supposeyou have read of them in your Bible.""Of course I have," said the prince."Well," continued the East Wind, "when they were driven out of thegarden of paradise, it sunk into the earth. but it retained its warmsunshine, its balmy air, and all its splendor. The fairy queen livesthere, in the island of happiness, where death never comes, and all isbeautiful. I can manage to take you there to morrow, if you will siton my back. But now don't talk any more, for I want to go to sleep."and then they all slept.When the prince awoke in the early morning, he was not a littlesurprised at finding himself high up above the clouds. He was seatedon the back of the East Wind, who held him faithfully. and they wereso high in the air that woods and fields, rivers and lakes, as theylay beneath them, looked like a painted map."Good morning," said the East Wind. "You might have slept on awhile. for there is very little to see in the flat country overwhich we are passing unless you like to count the churches. theylook like spots of chalk on a green board." The green board was thename he gave to the green fields and meadows."It was very rude of me not to say good bye to your mother andyour brothers," said the prince."They will excuse you, as you were asleep," said the East Wind.and then they flew on faster than ever.The leaves and branches of the trees rustled as they passed.When they flew over seas and lakes, the waves rose higher, and thelarge ships dipped into the water like diving swans. As darknesscame on, towards evening, the great towns looked charming. lights weresparkling, now seen now hidden, just as the sparks go out one afteranother on a piece of burnt paper. The prince clapped his hands withpleasure. but the East Wind advised him not to express hisadmiration in that manner, or he might fall down, and find himselfhanging on a church steeple. The eagle in the dark forests fliesswiftly. but faster than he flew the East Wind. The Cossack, on hissmall horse, rides lightly o'er the plains. but lighter still passedthe prince on the winds of the wind."There are the Himalayas, the highest mountains in Asia," said theEast Wind. "We shall soon reach the garden of paradise now."Then, they turned southward, and the air became fragrant withthe perfume of spices and flowers. Here figs and pomegranates grewwild, and the vines were covered with clusters of blue and purplegrapes. Here they both descended to the earth, and stretchedthemselves on the soft grass, while the flowers bowed to the breath ofthe wind as if to welcome it. "Are we now in the garden ofparadise?" asked the prince."No, indeed," replied the East Wind. "but we shall be there verysoon. Do you see that wall of rocks, and the cavern beneath it, overwhich the grape vines hang like a green curtain? Through that cavernwe must pass. Wrap your cloak round you. for while the sun scorchesyou here, a few steps farther it will be icy cold. The bird flyingpast the entrance to the cavern feels as if one wing were in theregion of summer, and the other in the depths of winter.""So this then is the way to the garden of paradise?" asked theprince, as they entered the cavern. It was indeed cold. but the coldsoon passed, for the East Wind spread his wings, and they gleamed likethe brightest fire. As they passed on through this wonderful cave, theprince could see great blocks of stone, from which water trickled,hanging over their heads in fantastic shapes. Sometimes it was sonarrow that they had to creep on their hands and knees, while at othertimes it was lofty and wide, like the free air. It had theappearance of a chapel for the dead, with petrified organs andsilent pipes. "We seem to be passing through the valley of death tothe garden of paradise," said the prince.But the East Wind answered not a word, only pointed forwards toa lovely blue light which gleamed in the distance. The blocks of stoneassumed a misty appearance, till at last they looked like white cloudsin moonlight. The air was fresh and balmy, like a breeze from themountains perfumed with flowers from a valley of roses. A river, clearas the air itself, sparkled at their feet, while in its clear depthscould be seen gold and silver fish sporting in the bright water, andpurple eels emitting sparks of fire at every moment, while the broadleaves of the water lilies, that floated on its surface, flickeredwith all the colors of the rainbow. The flower in its color of flameseemed to receive its nourishment from the water, as a lamp issustained by oil. A marble bridge, of such exquisite workmanshipthat it appeared as if formed of lace and pearls, led to the island ofhappiness, in which bloomed the garden of paradise. The East Wind tookthe prince in his arms, and carried him over, while the flowers andthe leaves sang the sweet songs of his childhood in tones so fulland soft that no human voice could venture to imitate. Within thegarden grew large trees, full of sap. but whether they were palm treesor gigantic water plants, the prince knew not. The climbing plantshung in garlands of green and gold, like the illuminations on themargins of old missals or twined among the initial letters. Birds,flowers, and festoons appeared intermingled in seeming confusion.Close by, on the grass, stood a group of peacocks, with radianttails outspread to the sun. The prince touched them, and found, to hissurprise, that they were not really birds, but the leaves of theburdock tree, which shone with the colors of a peacock's tail. Thelion and the tiger, gentle and tame, were springing about like playfulcats among the green bushes, whose perfume was like the fragrantblossom of the olive. The plumage of the wood pigeon glistened likepearls as it struck the lion's mane with its wings. while theantelope, usually so shy, stood near, nodding its head as if it wishedto join in the frolic. The fairy of paradise next made her appearance.Her raiment shone like the sun, and her serene countenance beamed withhappiness like that of a mother rejoicing over her child. She wasyoung and beautiful, and a train of lovely maidens followed her,each wearing a bright star in her hair. The East Wind gave her thepalm leaf, on which was written the history of the phoenix. and hereyes sparkled with joy. She then took the prince by the hand, andled him into her palace, the walls of which were richly colored,like a tulip leaf when it is turned to the sun. The roof had theappearance of an inverted flower, and the colors grew deeper andbrighter to the gazer. The prince walked to a window, and saw whatappeared to be the tree of knowledge of good and evil, with Adam andEve standing by, and the serpent near them. "I thought they werebanished from paradise," he said.The princess smiled, and told him that time had engraved eachevent on a window pane in the form of a picture. but, unlike otherpictures, all that it represented lived and moved, the leavesrustled, and the persons went and came, as in a looking glass. Helooked through another pane, and saw the ladder in Jacob's dream, onwhich the angels were ascending and descending with outspread wings.All that had ever happened in the world here lived and moved on thepanes of glass, in pictures such as time alone could produce. Thefairy now led the prince into a large, lofty room with transparentwalls, through which the light shone. Here were portraits, each oneappearing more beautiful than the other millions of happy beings,whose laughter and song mingled in one sweet melody: some of thesewere in such an elevated position that they appeared smaller thanthe smallest rosebud, or like pencil dots on paper. In the centre ofthe hall stood a tree, with drooping branches, from which hunggolden apples, both great and small, looking like oranges amid thegreen leaves. It was the tree of knowledge of good and evil, fromwhich Adam and Eve had plucked and eaten the forbidden fruit, and fromeach leaf trickled a bright red dewdrop, as if the tree were weepingtears of blood for their sin. "Let us now take the boat," said thefairy: "a sail on the cool waters will refresh us. But we shall notmove from the spot, although the boat may rock on the swellingwater. the countries of the world will glide before us, but we shallremain still."It was indeed wonderful to behold. First came the lofty Alps,snow clad, and covered with clouds and dark pines. The horn resounded,and the shepherds sang merrily in the valleys. The banana trees benttheir drooping branches over the boat, black swans floated on thewater, and singular animals and flowers appeared on the distant shore.New Holland, the fifth division of the world, now glided by, withmountains in the background, looking blue in the distance. Theyheard the song of the priests, and saw the wild dance of the savage tothe sound of the drums and trumpets of bone. the pyramids of Egyptrising to the clouds. columns and sphinxes, overthrown and buried inthe sand, followed in their turn. while the northern lights flashedout over the extinguished volcanoes of the north, in fireworks nonecould imitate.The prince was delighted, and yet he saw hundreds of otherwonderful things more than can be described. "Can I stay hereforever?" asked he."That depends upon yourself," replied the fairy. "If you do not,like Adam, long for what is forbidden, you can remain here always.""I should not touch the fruit on the tree of knowledge," saidthe prince. "there is abundance of fruit equally beautiful.""Examine your own heart," said the princess, "and if you do notfeel sure of its strength, return with the East Wind who broughtyou. He is about to fly back, and will not return here for a hundredyears. The time will not seem to you more than a hundred hours, yeteven that is a long time for temptation and resistance. Every evening,when I leave you, I shall be obliged to say, 'Come with me,' and tobeckon to you with my hand. But you must not listen, nor move fromyour place to follow me. for with every step you will find yourpower to resist weaker. If once you attempted to follow me, youwould soon find yourself in the hall, where grows the tree ofknowledge, for I sleep beneath its perfumed branches. If you stoopedover me, I should be forced to smile. If you then kissed my lips,the garden of paradise would sink into the earth, and to you itwould be lost. A keen wind from the desert would howl around you. coldrain fall on your head, and sorrow and woe be your future lot.""I will remain," said the prince.So the East Wind kissed him on the forehead, and said, "Be firm.then shall we meet again when a hundred years have passed. Farewell,farewell." Then the East Wind spread his broad pinions, which shonelike the lightning in harvest, or as the northern lights in a coldwinter."Farewell, farewell," echoed the trees and the flowers.Storks and pelicans flew after him in feathery bands, to accompanyhim to the boundaries of the garden."Now we will commence dancing," said the fairy. "and when it isnearly over at sunset, while I am dancing with you, I shall make asign, and ask you to follow me: but do not obey. I shall be obliged torepeat the same thing for a hundred years. and each time, when thetrial is past, if you resist, you will gain strength, tillresistance becomes easy, and at last the temptation will be quiteovercome. This evening, as it will be the first time, I have warnedyou."After this the fairy led him into a large hall, filled withtransparent lilies. The yellow stamina of each flower formed a tinygolden harp, from which came forth strains of music like the mingledtones of flute and lyre. Beautiful maidens, slender and graceful inform, and robed in transparent gauze, floated through the dance, andsang of the happy life in the garden of paradise, where death neverentered, and where all would bloom forever in immortal youth. As thesun went down, the whole heavens became crimson and gold, and tintedthe lilies with the hue of roses. Then the beautiful maidens offeredto the prince sparkling wine. and when he had drank, he felt happinessgreater than he had ever known before. Presently the background of thehall opened and the tree of knowledge appeared, surrounded by a haloof glory that almost blinded him. Voices, soft and lovely as hismother's sounded in his ears, as if she were singing to him, "Mychild, my beloved child." Then the fairy beckoned to him, and saidin sweet accents, "Come with me, come with me." Forgetting hispromise, forgetting it even on the very first evening, he rushedtowards her, while she continued to beckon to him and to smile. Thefragrance around him overpowered his senses, the music from theharps sounded more entrancing, while around the tree appeared millionsof smiling faces, nodding and singing. "Man should know everything.man is the lord of the earth." The tree of knowledge no longer wepttears of blood, for the dewdrops shone like glittering stars."Come, come," continued that thrilling voice, and the princefollowed the call. At every step his cheeks glowed, and the bloodrushed wildly through his veins. "I must follow," he cried. "it is nota sin, it cannot be, to follow beauty and joy. I only want to seeher sleep, and nothing will happen unless I kiss her, and that Iwill not do, for I have strength to resist, and a determined will."The fairy threw off her dazzling attire, bent back the boughs, andin another moment was hidden among them."I have not sinned yet," said the prince, "and I will not." andthen he pushed aside the boughs to follow the princess. She waslying already asleep, beautiful as only a fairy in the garden ofparadise could be. She smiled as he bent over her, and he saw tearstrembling out of her beautiful eyelashes. "Do you weep for me?" hewhispered. "Oh weep not, thou loveliest of women. Now do I begin tounderstand the happiness of paradise. I feel it to my inmost soul,in every thought. A new life is born within me. One moment of suchhappiness is worth an eternity of darkness and woe." He stooped andkissed the tears from her eyes, and touched her lips with his.A clap of thunder, loud and awful, resounded through the tremblingair. All around him fell into ruin. The lovely fairy, the beautifulgarden, sunk deeper and deeper. The prince saw it sinking down inthe dark night till it shone only like a star in the distancebeneath him. Then he felt a coldness, like death, creeping over him.his eyes closed, and he became insensible.When he recovered, a chilling rain was beating upon him, and asharp wind blew on his head. "Alas! what have I done?" he sighed. "Ihave sinned like Adam, and the garden of paradise has sunk into theearth." He opened his eyes, and saw the star in the distance, but itwas the morning star in heaven which glittered in the darkness.Presently he stood up and found himself in the depths of theforest, close to the cavern of the Winds, and the mother of theWinds sat by his side. She looked angry, and raised her arm in the airas she spoke. "The very first evening!" she said. "Well, I expectedit! If you were my son, you should go into the sack.""And there he will have to go at last," said a strong old man,with large black wings, and a scythe in his hand, whose name wasDeath. "He shall be laid in his coffin, but not yet. I will allowhim to wander about the world for a while, to atone for his sin, andto give him time to become better. But I shall return when he leastexpects me. I shall lay him in a black coffin, place it on my head,and fly away with it beyond the stars. There also blooms a garden ofparadise, and if he is good and pious he will be admitted. but ifhis thoughts are bad, and his heart is full of sin, he will sinkwith his coffin deeper than the garden of paradise has sunk. Once inevery thousand years I shall go and fetch him, when he will eitherbe condemned to sink still deeper, or be raised to a happier life inthe world beyond the stars."