There was once a poor peasant who tilled a small field that belonged toa rich landowner. One day while he was plowing, his plow struck somethingso violently that it could not be moved. At first the man thought that itwas a stone, but when he looked more carefully he found that it was alarge chest full of old coins. It was gold and silver money that hadprobably been hidden there many hundred years ago in war times.The peasant filled a bag with the money and dragged it home, for hethought that he had as good a right to keep the money as anyone else. Theoriginal owner had, of course, died many generations ago. In spite ofthat, he feared that the landowner would claim and seize the money when helearned that it had been found in his field. So the peasant said nothingto anybody except his wife about the find, and he begged her to keepsilent about it.But she could not keep the secret, and had to tell some of her friendsabout the good fortune. To be sure she asked each one separately not totell anybody. but as they could not keep the secret either, at last thenews of the discovery of the treasure came to the ears of thelandowner.Soon after that he rode out to the peasant's cottage, which lay far outon a lonely heath. There was, however, nobody at home except the woman,for her husband had just gone to town to get some money changed. So whenthe landowner asked the woman about the matter, she told him all that sheknew   that her husband had found a chest full of money out in the field,and that he was not at home now, and that she did not know where he hadput the money. The owner then said that he would return another time, andmake further inquiry about the money.When the peasant came home, his wife told him all that had happened.nevertheless, he did not reproach her. The next day he took his horses andwagon and asked his wife to accompany him to the town. There he exchangedall his old money for new coins, and invested the proceeds carefully andto good advantage. Then be bought a bushel of little rolls, which he putinto a large bag. The man and his wife ate and drank to their heartscontent, and towards evening they started on their homeward journey.It was late in the autumn, and it was raining and blowing hard as theydrove home in the dark. But the wine she had drunk had gone to the head ofthe wife, and she slept soundly on the back seat. After they had gone forsome distance, she was awakened by a roll that fell on her head, andimmediately after that another one fell into her lap. and as soon as shefell asleep, rolls again began to rain down upon her. These her husbandwas throwing into the air so that they should fall upon her."But what is happening?" the woman called to her husband, "it seems tome that it is raining rolls.""Yes," said her husband, "that is just what it is doing. we are havingterrible weather."As they were passing the landowner's house, the woman was awakened bythe braying of a donkey."What was that?" she exclaimed, feeling very uneasy."Well, I hardly like to say," replied her husband, "but if I must tellthe truth, it was the devil who once loaned our landlord some money, andis now tormenting him because he will not pay the interest. he isthrashing him with a horsewhip.""Hurry up," said the woman, "and get away from here as fast as youcan." So the man whipped up his horses, and at last they reached home safeand sound.But when they were home the husband said, "Listen, wife, I heard somebad news when we were in town. The enemy is in our land and this night hewill be in our neighborhood. So you must crawl into the potato cellar inorder to be out of danger, while I shall stay up stairs and protect ourproperty as well as I can."So the peasant's wife went down into the cellar, while her husband tookhis gun and went outside, and shot and cried out and made a great noise.This he kept up all night, and towards morning he told his wife that shecould come up. "Fortunately," he said, "I was able to hold my own. I shotdown many of the enemy, who at last were compelled to retire, taking withthem their dead and wounded.""Thank God," she said, "that everything has turned out well. I wasfrightened nearly to death."A few days after that the landowner rode out and found the peasantstanding before his cottage. "Where is the treasure that you found in myfield?" he asked him. The man answered that he did not know anything abouta treasure."Oh, nonsense," said the landowner, "it will not do you any good todeny it, for your wife told me all about it herself.""That is quite possible," said the man, "for my wife is sometimes alittle queer, and one can not always believe all that she says." And hetouched his forehead as he spoke.Then the landowner called the woman and asked whether it were not truethat she had confessed to him that her husband had found a chest full ofmoney in the field."Certainly," she said, "and I was with him in town when he exchangedthe old money for new coins.""When was that?" asked the landlord."Why that was the time we had the frightful storm when it rained breadrolls.""Nonsense," said he. "when was that?""It was on the day of the great battle that was fought on our field,after the enemy had invaded our country.""What battle, and what enemy?" said the landlord, "I think that thewoman is crazy. But tell me at once, when was it that you were in town toexchange the money?"Then the woman wept, and much as she disliked to do so, she had to sayit, "It was the same evening that the devil was tormenting you and beatingyou because you would not pay him what you owed him.""What are you saying?" screamed the landowner, in a rage. "I'll thrashyou for your lying nonsense." And with that he gave her a blow with hiswhip and dashed out of the door and rode away, and never again asked aboutthe treasure. The peasant, however, bought a large farm in another part ofthe country and lived there happily with his wife.