Once upon a time there was a man who was traveling about, and he cameat length to a big and fine farm. There was such a fine manor house therethat it might well have been a little castle. "It would be a nice thing toget a night's rest here," said the man to himself, upon entering the gate.Close by stood an old man with gray hair and beard, chopping wood."Good evening, father," said the traveler. "Can I get lodgings heretonight?""I am not the father of the house," said the old man. "Go into thekitchen and speak to my father!" The traveler went into the kitchen. Therehe met a man who was still older, and he was lying on his knees in frontof the hearth, blowing into the fire."Good evening, father. Can I get lodgings here tonight?" asked thetraveler."I am not the father of the house," said the old man. "But go in andspeak to my father. He is sitting at the table in the parlor."So the traveler went into the parlor and spoke to him who was sittingat the table. He was much older than the other two, and he sat there withchattering teeth, shaking, and reading in a big book, almost like a littlechild."Good evening, father. Can you give me lodgings here tonight?" said theman."I am not the father of the house. But speak to my father over there.He is sitting on the bench," said the man who was sitting at the tablewith chattering teeth, and shaking and shivering. So the traveler went tohim who was sitting on the bench. He was getting a pipe of tobacco ready,but he was so bent with age, and his hands shook so much, that he wasscarcely able to hold the pipe."Good evening, father," said the traveler again. "Can I get lodgingshere tonight?""I am not the father of the house," said the old, bent over man. "Butspeak to my father, who is in the bed over yonder."The traveler went to the bed, and there lay an old, old man, and theonly thing about him that seemed to be alive was a pair of big eyes."Good evening, father. Can I get lodgings here tonight?" said thetraveler."I am not the father of the house. But speak to my father, who lies inthe cradle yonder," said the man with the big eyes. Yes, the traveler wentto the cradle. There was a very old man lying, so shriveled up, that hewas not larger than a baby, and one could not have told that there waslife in him if it had not been for a sound in his throat now and then."Good evening, father. Can I get lodgings here tonight?" said the man.It took some time before he got an answer, and still longer before he hadfinished it. He said, like the others, that he was not the father of thehouse. "But speak to my father. He is hanging up in the horn on the wallthere."The traveler stared around the walls, and at last he caught sight ofthe horn. But when he looked for him who hung in it, there was scarcelyanything to be seen but a lump of white ashes, which had the appearance ofa man's face. Then he was so frightened, that he cried aloud, "Goodevening, father. Will you give me lodgings here tonight?"There was a sound like a little tomtit's chirping, and he was barelyable to understand that it meant, "Yes, my child."And now a table came in which was covered with the costliest dishes,with ale and brandy. And when he had eaten and drunk, in came a good bedwith reindeer skins, and the traveler was very glad indeed that he at lasthad found the true father of the house.