ONCE upon a time there lived a King and Queen. They had three sons, twoof them with their wits about them, but the third a simpleton. Nowthe King had a deer park in which were quantities of wild animals ofdifferent kinds. Into that park there used to come a huge beast Norkawas its name and do fearful mischief, devouring some of the animalsevery night. The King did all he could, but he was unable to destroy it.So at last he called his sons together and said, 'Whoever will destroythe Norka, to him will I give the half of my kingdom.'Well, the eldest son undertook the task. As soon as it was night, hetook his weapons and set out. But before he reached the park, he wentinto a traktir (or tavern), and there he spent the whole night inrevelry. When he came to his senses it was too late. the day had alreadydawned. He felt himself disgraced in the eyes of his father, but therewas no help for it. The next day the second son went, and did just thesame. Their father scolded them both soundly, and there was an end ofit.Well, on the third day the youngest son undertook the task. They alllaughed him to scorn, because he was so stupid, feeling sure he wouldn'tdo anything. But he took his arms, and went straight into the park, andsat down on the grass in such a position that the moment he went asleephis weapons would prick him, and he would awake.Presently the midnight hour sounded. The earth began to shake, and theNorka came rushing up, and burst right through the fence into the park,so huge was it. The Prince pulled himself together, leapt to his feet,crossed himself, and went straight at the beast. It fled back, and thePrince ran after it. But he soon saw that he couldn't catch it on foot,so he hastened to the stable, laid his hands on the best horse there,and set off in pursuit. Presently he came up with the beast, and theybegan a fight. They fought and fought. the Prince gave the beast threewounds. At last they were both utterly exhausted, so they lay down totake a short rest. But the moment the Prince closed his eyes, up jumpedthe beast and took to flight. The Prince's horse awoke him. up he jumpedin a moment, and set off again in pursuit, caught up the beast, andagain began fighting with it. Again the Prince gave the beast threewounds, and then he and the beast lay down again to rest. Thereupon awayfled the beast as before. The Prince caught it up, and again gave itthree wounds. But all of a sudden, just as the Prince began chasing itfor the fourth time, the beast fled to a great white stone, tilted itup, and escaped into the other world, crying out to the Prince: 'Thenonly will you overcome me, when you enter here.'The Prince went home, told his father all that had happened, and askedhim to have a leather rope plaited, long enough to reach to the otherworld. His father ordered this to be done. When the rope was made, thePrince called for his brothers, and he and they, having taken servantswith them, and everything that was needed for a whole year, set out forthe place where the beast had disappeared under the stone. When they gotthere, they built a palace on the spot, and lived in it for some time.But when everything was ready, the youngest brother said to the others:'Now, brothers, who is going to lift this stone?'Neither of them could so much as stir it, but as soon as he touched it,away it flew to a distance, though it was ever so big big as a hill.And when he had flung the stone aside, he spoke a second time to hisbrothers, saying:'Who is going into the other world, to overcome the Norka?'Neither of them offered to do so. Then he laughed at them for being suchcowards, and said:'Well, brothers, farewell! Lower me into the other world, and don't goaway from here, but as soon as the cord is jerked, pull it up.'His brothers lowered him accordingly, and when he had reached the otherworld, underneath the earth, he went on his way. He walked and walked.Presently he espied a horse with rich trappings, and it said to him:'Hail, Prince Ivan! Long have I awaited thee!'He mounted the horse and rode on rode and rode, until he saw standingbefore him a palace made of copper. He entered the courtyard, tied uphis horse, and went indoors. In one of the rooms a dinner was laid out.He sat down and dined, and then went into a bedroom. There he found abed, on which he lay down to rest. Presently there came in a lady, morebeautiful than can be imagined anywhere but in a fairy tale, who said:'Thou who art in my house, name thyself! If thou art an old man, thoushalt be my father. if a middle aged man, my brother. but if a youngman, thou shalt be my husband dear. And if thou art a woman, and an oldone, thou shalt be my grandmother. if middle aged, my mother. and if agirl, thou shalt be my own sister.'Thereupon he came forth. And when she saw him she was delighted withhim, and said:'Wherefore, O Prince Ivan my husband dear shalt thou be! whereforehast thou come hither?'Then he told her all that had happened, and she said:'That beast which thou wishest to overcome is my brother. He is stayingjust now with my second sister, who lives not far from here in a silverpalace. I bound up three of the wounds which thou didst give him.'Well, after this they drank, and enjoyed themselves, and held sweetconverse together, and then the Prince took leave of her, and went on tothe second sister, the one who lived in the silver palace, and with heralso he stayed awhile. She told him that her brother Norka was then ather youngest sister's. So he went on to the youngest sister, who livedin a golden palace. She told him that her brother was at that timeasleep on the blue sea, and she gave him a sword of steel and a draughtof the Water of Strength, and she told him to cut off her brother's headat a single stroke. And when he had heard these things, he went his way.And when the Prince came to the blue sea, he looked there slept theNorka on a stone in the middle of the sea. and when it snored, the waterwas agitated for seven miles around. The Prince crossed himself, wentup to it, and smote it on the head with his sword. The head jumped off,saying the while, 'Well, I'm done for now!' and rolled far away into thesea.After killing the beast, the Prince went back again, picking up all thethree sisters by the way, with the intention of taking them out into theupper world: for they all loved him and would not be separated fromhim. Each of them turned her palace into an egg for they were allenchantresses and they taught him how to turn the eggs into palaces,and back again, and they handed over the eggs to him. And then theyall went to the place from which they had to be hoisted into the upperworld. And when they came to where the rope was, the Prince took hold ofit and made the maidens fast to it. Then he jerked away at the rope andhis brothers began to haul it up. And when they had hauled it up, andhad set eyes on the wondrous maidens, they went aside and said: 'Let'slower the rope, pull our brother part of the way up, and then cut therope. Perhaps he'll be killed. but then if he isn't, he'll never give usthese beauties as wives.'So when they had agreed on this, they lowered the rope. But theirbrother was no fool. he guessed what they were at, so he fastened therope to a stone, and then gave it a pull. His brothers hoisted the stoneto a great height, and then cut the rope. Down fell the stone and brokein pieces. the Prince poured forth tears and went away. Well, he walkedand walked. Presently a storm arose. the lightning flashed, the thunderroared, the rain fell in torrents. He went up to a tree in order to takeshelter under it, and on that tree he saw some young birds which werebeing thoroughly drenched. So he took off his coat and covered them overwith it, and he himself sat down under the tree. Presently there cameflying a bird such a big one that the light was blotted out by it. Ithad been dark there before, but now it became darker still. Now thiswas the mother of those small birds which the Prince had covered up.And when the bird had come flying up, she perceived that her little oneswere covered over, and she said, 'Who has wrapped up my nestlings?' andpresently, seeing the Prince, she added: 'Didst thou do that? Thanks! Inreturn, ask of me anything thou desirest. I will do anything for thee.''Then carry me into the other world,' he replied.'Make me a large vessel with a partition in the middle,' she said.'catch all sorts of game, and put them into one half of it, and into theother half pour water. so that there may be meat and drink for me.'All this the Prince did. Then the bird having taken the vessel on herback, with the Prince sitting in the middle of it began to fly. Andafter flying some distance she brought him to his journey's end, tookleave of him, and flew away back. But he went to the house of a certaintailor, and engaged himself as his servant. So much the worse for wearwas he, so thoroughly had he altered in appearance, that nobody wouldhave suspected him of being a Prince.Having entered into the service of this master, the Prince began toask what was going on in that country. And his master replied: 'Our twoPrinces for the third one has disappeared have brought away bridesfrom the other world, and want to marry them, but those brides refuse.For they insist on having all their wedding clothes made for them first,exactly like those which they used to have in the other world, and thatwithout being measured for them. The King has called all the workmentogether, but not one of them will undertake to do it.'The Prince, having heard all this, said, 'Go to the King, master, andtell him that you will provide everything that's in your line.''However can I undertake to make clothes of that sort? I work for quitecommon folks,' says his master.'Go along, master! I will answer for everything,' says the Prince.So the tailor went. The King was delighted that at least one goodworkman had been found, and gave him as much money as ever he wanted.When his tailor had settled everything, he went home. And the Princesaid to him:'Now then, pray to God, and lie down to sleep. to morrow all will beready.' And the tailor followed his lad's advice, and went to bed.Midnight sounded. The Prince arose, went out of the city into thefields, took out of his pocket the eggs which the maidens had given him,and, as they had taught him, turned them into three palaces. Into eachof these he entered, took the maidens' robes, went out again, turned thepalaces back into eggs, and went home. And when he got there he hung upthe robes on the wall, and lay down to sleep.Early in the morning his master awoke, and behold! there hung suchrobes as he had never seen before, all shining with gold and silver andprecious stones. He was delighted, and he seized them and carried themoff to the King. When the Princesses saw that the clothes were thosewhich had been theirs in the other world, they guessed that Prince Ivanwas in this world, so they exchanged glances with each other, but theyheld their peace. And the master, having handed over the clothes, wenthome, but he no longer found his dear journeyman there. For the Princehad gone to a shoemaker's, and him too he sent to work for the King. andin the same way he went the round of all the artificers, and they allproffered him thanks, inasmuch as through him they were enriched by theKing.By the time the princely workman had gone the round of all theartificers, the Princesses had received what they had asked for. alltheir clothes were just like what they had been in the other world.Then they wept bitterly because the Prince had not come, and it wasimpossible for them to hold out any longer. it was necessary thatthey should be married. But when they were ready for the wedding, theyoungest bride said to the King:'Allow me, my father, to go and give alms to the beggars.'He gave her leave, and she went and began bestowing alms upon them, andexamining them closely. And when she had come to one of them, and wasgoing to give him some money, she caught sight of the ring which she hadgiven to the Prince in the other world, and her sisters' rings too forit really was he. So she seized him by the hand, and brought him intothe hall, and said to the King:'Here is he who brought us out of the other world. His brothers forbadeus to say that he was alive, threatening to slay us if we did.'Then the King was wroth with those sons, and punished them as he thoughtbest. And afterwards three weddings were celebrated.