Once on a time there were three princes, who had a step sister. One daythey all set out hunting together. When they had gone some way through athick wood they came on a great grey wolf with three cubs. Just as theywere going to shoot, the wolf spoke and said, 'Do not shoot me, and Iwill give each of you one of my young ones. It will be a faithful friendto you.'So the princes went on their way, and a little wolf followed each ofthem.Soon after they came on a lioness with three cubs. And she too beggedthem not to shoot her, and she would give each of them a cub. And so ithappened with a fox, a hare, a boar, and a bear, till each prince hadquite a following of young beasts padding along behind him.Towards evening they came to a clearing in the wood, where three birchesgrew at the crossing of three roads. The eldest prince took an arrow,and shot it into the trunk of one of the birch trees. Turning to hisbrothers he said:'Let each of us mark one of these trees before we part on differentways. When any one of us comes back to this place, he must walk roundthe trees of the other two, and if he sees blood flowing from the markin the tree he will know that that brother is dead, but if milk flows hewill know that his brother is alive.'So each of the princes did as the eldest brother had said, and whenthe three birches were marked by their arrows they turned to theirstep sister and asked her with which of them she meant to live.'With the eldest,' she answered. Then the brothers separated from eachother, and each of them set out down a different road, followed by theirbeasts. And the step sister went with the eldest prince.After they had gone a little way along the road they came into a forest,and in one of the deepest glades they suddenly found themselves oppositea castle in which there lived a band of robbers. The prince walked up tothe door and knocked. The moment it was opened the beasts rushed in, andeach seized on a robber, killed him, and dragged the body down tothe cellar. Now, one of the robbers was not really killed, only badlywounded, but he lay quite still and pretended to be dead like theothers. Then the prince and his step sister entered the castle and tookup their abode in it.The next morning the prince went out hunting. Before leaving he told hisstep sister that she might go into every room in the house except intothe cave where the dead robbers lay. But as soon as his back was turnedshe forgot what he had said, and having wandered through all the otherrooms she went down to the cellar and opened the door. As soon as shelooked in the robber who had only pretended to be dead sat up and saidto her:'Don't be afraid. Do what I tell you, and I will be your friend.If you marry me you will be much happier with me than with your brother.But you must first go into the sitting room and look in the cupboard.There you will find three bottles. In one of them there is a healingointment which you must put on my chin to heal the wound. then if Idrink the contents of the second bottle it will make me well, and thethird bottle will make me stronger than I ever was before. Then, whenyour brother comes back from the wood with his beasts you must go to himand say, "Brother, you are very strong. If I were to fasten your thumbsbehind your back with a stout silk cord, could you wrench yourselffree?" And when you see that he cannot do it, call me.'When the brother came home, the step sister did as the robber had toldher, and fastened her brother's thumbs behind his back. But with onewrench he set himself free, and said to her, 'Sister, that cord is notstrong enough for me.'The next day he went back to the wood with his beasts, and the robbertold her that she must take a much stouter cord to bind his thumbs with.But again he freed himself, though not so easily as the first time, andhe said to his sister:'Even that cord is not strong enough.'The third day, on his return from the wood he consented to have hisstrength tested for the last time. So she took a very strong cord ofsilk, which she had prepared by the robber's advice, and this time,though the prince pulled and tugged with all his might, he could notbreak the cord. So he called to her and said: 'Sister, this time thecord is so strong I cannot break it. Come and unfasten it for me.'But instead of coming she called to the robber, who rushed into the roombrandishing a knife, with which he prepared to attack the prince.But the prince spoke and said:'Have patience for one minute. I would like before I die to blow threeblasts on my hunting horn one in this room, one on the stairs, and onein the courtyard.'So the robber consented, and the prince blew the horn. At the firstblast, the fox, which was asleep in the cage in the courtyard, awoke,and knew that his master needed help. So he awoke the wolf by flickinghim across the eyes with his brush. Then they awoke the lion, who sprangagainst the door of the cage with might and main, so that it fell insplinters on the ground, and the beasts were free. Rushing through thecourt to their master's aid, the fox gnawed the cord in two that boundthe prince's thumbs behind his back, and the lion flung himself on therobber, and when he had killed him and torn him in pieces each of thebeasts carried off a bone.Then the prince turned to the step sister and said:'I will not kill you, but I will leave you here to repent.' And hefastened her with a chain to the wall, and put a great bowl in front ofher and said, 'I will not see you again till you have filled this bowlwith your tears.'So saying, he called his beasts, and set out on his travels. When he hadgone a little way he came to an inn. Everyone in the inn seemed so sadthat he asked them what was the matter.'Ah,' replied they, 'to day our king's daughter is to die. She is to behanded over to a dreadful nine headed dragon.'Then the prince said: 'Why should she die? I am very strong, I will saveher.'And he set out to the sea shore, where the dragon was to meet theprincess. And as he waited with his beasts round him a great processioncame along, accompanying the unfortunate princess: and when the shorewas reached all the people left her, and returned sadly to their houses.But the prince remained, and soon he saw a movement in the water a longway off. As it came nearer, he knew what it was, for skimming swiftlyalong the waters came a monster dragon with nine heads. Then the princetook counsel with his beasts, and as the dragon approached the shorethe fox drew his brush through the water and blinded the dragon byscattering the salt water in his eyes, while the bear and the lion threwup more water with their paws, so that the monster was bewildered andcould see nothing. Then the prince rushed forward with his sword andkilled the dragon, and the beasts tore the body in pieces.Then the princess turned to the prince and thanked him for deliveringher from the dragon, and she said to him:'Step into this carriage with me, and we will drive back to my father'spalace.' And she gave him a ring and half of her handkerchief. But onthe way back the coachman and footman spoke to one another and said:'Why should we drive this stranger back to the palace? Let us kill him,and then we can say to the king that we slew the dragon and saved theprincess, and one of us shall marry her.'So they killed the prince, and left him dead on the roadside. And thefaithful beasts came round the dead body and wept, and wondered whatthey should do. Then suddenly the wolf had an idea, and he started offinto the wood, where he found an ox, which he straightway killed. Thenhe called the fox, and told him to mount guard over the dead ox, and ifa bird came past and tried to peck at the flesh he was to catch it andbring it to the lion. Soon after a crow flew past, and began to peckat the dead ox. In a moment the fox had caught it and brought it to thelion. Then the lion said to the crow:'We will not kill you if you will promise to fly to the town where thereare three wells of healing and to bring back water from them in yourbeak to make this dead man alive.'So the crow flew away, and she filled her beak at the well of healing,the well of strength, and the well of swiftness, and she flew back tothe dead prince and dropped the water from her beak upon his lips, andhe was healed, and could sit up and walk.Then he set out for the town, accompanied by his faithful beasts.And when they reached the king's palace they found that preparationsfor a great feast were being made, for the princess was to marry thecoachman.So the prince walked into the palace, and went straight up to thecoachman and said: 'What token have you got that you killed the dragonand won the hand of the princess? I have her token here this ring andhalf her handkerchief.'And when the king saw these tokens he knew that the prince was speakingthe truth. So the coachman was bound in chains and thrown into prison,and the prince was married to the princess and rewarded with half thekingdom.One day, soon after his marriage, the prince was walking through thewoods in the evening, followed by his faithful beasts. Darkness came on,and he lost his way, and wandered about among the trees looking for thepath that would lead him back to the palace. As he walked he saw thelight of a fire, and making his way to it he found an old woman rakingsticks and dried leaves together, and burning them in a glade of thewood.As he was very tired, and the night was very dark, the prince determinednot to wander further. So he asked the old woman if he might spend thenight beside her fire.'Of course you may,' she answered. 'But I am afraid of your beasts. Letme hit them with my rod, and then I shall not be afraid of them.''Very well,' said the prince, 'I don't mind'. and she stretched out herrod and hit the beasts, and in one moment they were turned into stone,and so was the prince.Now soon after this the prince's youngest brother came to thecross roads with the three birches, where the brothers had parted fromeach other when they set out on their wanderings. Remembering what theyhad agreed to do, he walked round the two trees, and when he saw thatblood oozed from the cut in the eldest prince's tree he knew that hisbrother must be dead. So he set out, followed by his beasts, and came tothe town over which his brother had ruled, and where the princess hehad married lived. And when he came into the town all the people were ingreat sorrow because their prince had disappeared.But when they saw his youngest brother, and the beasts following him,they thought it was their own prince, and they rejoiced greatly, andtold him how they had sought him everywhere. Then they led him to theking, and he too thought that it was his son in law. But the princessknew that he was not her husband, and she begged him to go out into thewoods with his beasts, and to look for his brother till he found him.So the youngest prince set out to look for his brother, and he too losthis way in the wood and night overtook him. Then he came to the clearingamong the trees, where the fire was burning and where the old woman wasraking sticks and leaves into the flames. And he asked her if he mightspend the night beside her fire, as it was too late and too dark to goback to the town.And she answered: 'Certainly you may. But I am afraid of your beasts.May I give them a stroke with my rod, then I shall not be afraid ofthem.'And he said she might, for he did not know that she was a witch. So shestretched out her rod, and in a moment the beasts and their master wereturned into stone.It happened soon after that the second brother returned from hiswanderings and came to the cross roads where the three birches grew. Ashe went round the trees he saw that blood poured from the cuts in thebark of two of the trees. Then he wept and said:'Alas! both my brothers are dead.' And he too set out towards the townin which his brother had ruled, and his faithful beasts followed him.When he entered the town, all the people thought it was their own princecome back to them, and they gathered round him, as they had gatheredround his youngest brother, and asked him where he had been and whyhe had not returned. And they led him to the king's palace, but theprincess knew that he was not her husband. So when they were alonetogether she besought him to go and seek for his brother and bring himhome. Calling his beasts round him, he set out and wandered through thewoods. And he put his ear down to the earth, to listen if he could hearthe sound of his brother's beasts. And it seemed to him as if he heard afaint sound far off, but he did not know from what direction it came. Sohe blew on his hunting horn and listened again. And again he heard thesound, and this time it seemed to come from the direction of a fireburning in the wood. So he went towards the fire, and there the oldwoman was raking sticks and leaves into the embers. And he asked herif he might spend the night beside her fire. But she told him she wasafraid of his beasts, and he must first allow her to give each of them astroke with her rod.But he answered her:'Certainly not. I am their master, and no one shall strike them butI myself. Give me the rod'. and he touched the fox with it, and in amoment it was turned into stone. Then he knew that the old woman was awitch, and he turned to her and said:'Unless you restore my brothers and their beasts back to life at once,my lion will tear you in pieces.'Then the witch was terrified, and taking a young oak tree she burntit into white ashes, and sprinkled the ashes on the stones that stoodaround. And in a moment the two princes stood before their brother, andtheir beasts stood round them.Then the three princes set off together to the town. And the king didnot know which was his son in law, but the princess knew which was herhusband, and there were great rejoicings throughout the land.