There was once a little boy by the name of Hans. As his parents died whilehe was very young, his grandmother took care of him and taught him readingand writing, and to be a good boy.When she became very old, and thought she was about to die, she called thelittle boy to her and said, "I am old, Hans, and may not live long. Youwere always a good boy, and therefore you shall have my only treasure, acoffee mill which I have always kept at the bottom of my old chest. Thiscoffee mill will grind all that you wish. If you say to it, 'Grind ahouse, little mill,' it will work away, and there the house will stand.When you say, 'Stop, little mill,' it will cease to grind."Hans thanked his grandmother kindly, and when she died, and he was alonein the world, he opened the chest, took the coffee mill, and went out intothe world.When he had walked a long distance, and needed something to eat, he placedthe mill on the grass and said, "Grind some bread and butter, littlemill." Very soon Hans had all that he needed, and then he bid the mill tostop.The next day he came to a large seaport, and when he saw the many vessels,he thought it would be pleasant to see more of the great world. Hetherefore boarded one of the ships and offered his service to the sailors.As it just happened that the captain needed a boy of Hans's age, he toldhim to stay.As soon as the ship was out of port, the sailors commenced abusing Hans.He bore the harsh treatment as well as he could, and when he had nothingto eat the mill ground all that he wished. The bad men wondered how hecould always be contented, although they gave him but little to eat. Oneday one of them peeped through a hole in the cabin door and discovered howthe coffee mill served him.Now the sailors offered a large sum of money to Hans if he would sell histreasure. He refused, however, saying that it was all that his good oldgrandmother had left him. So one day these wicked men threw Hans overboardand seized the mill. As they were in need of some salt, they bid it grindfor them. The mill immediately began its work, and soon they had enough.Now they asked it to stop, but as the one who had peeped through the holeinto the boy's cabin had not learned the exact command, the mill refusedto obey, and before long the ship was filled with salt.The men grew desperate, but none of them was able to find a way out of thedifficulty. So at length the ship sank down with the mill, the salt, andall the wicked men. The men were drowned, but the mill is yet standing atthe bottom of the sea, grinding away, and for this reason the water in theocean has and always will have a salt taste.