A Prose Summary of the Middle English BalladThere were once two brothers, the one had inherited the father's house and land. the other became a parson, and through his own good management became quite wealthy. The former married a slovenly woman, whose wasteful ways soon brought them into need, and with time their only hope was to borrow money from the good and thrifty pastor. But they quickly squandered this new found wealth, and the married brother returned to the good parson requesting additional help.Questioned by the pastor as to the conditions in their household, the husband admitted that a priest, known by the name Sir John, was often a guest in their home."I suspect that this Sir John may be up to no good," warned the pastor, then outlined a plan to his gullible brother to reveal the true purpose of the priest's visits.Accordingly, the husband took the chamber pot from his own bedroom to the pastor, who spoke a charm over it. and the pot was then returned to its normal place beside the married couple's bed.Announcing that he would be away for some time, the husband took leave of his wife. No sooner had he disappeared from view than the wife sent for Sir John and began to prepare a feast for the two of them. Then having eaten their fill, they retired to the bedroom.In the middle of the night the priest arose to make water and picked up the chamber pot with his two hands, but to his alarm he discovered that some mysterious power held him fast to the basin."Woman, help me!" he cried to his bed partner. She jumped to his aid, but immediately found herself stuck to him and to the pot as well.Their combined cries awakened the servant girl who ran, stark naked, to help her mistress, but she too stuck to the pot.What followed was quite a dance: The three of them spilled onto the street just at daybreak, and one after another different villagers tried to pull them apart, only to become stuck to the procession themselves.Finally they were approached by the husband and his brother the parson. The cuckolded husband demanded payment of one hundred pounds from Sir John, threatening to cut of the latter's "equipment," unless he complied. Sir John, valuing his private parts, agreed to pay the proposed fine.Hearing these vows, the pastor spoke a charm over the basin, and its prisoners found themselves freed. The shamed priest left forthwith for a different country, and as for the husband and wife, from that time onward they lived together without strife.