Once upon a time there lived a stone cutter, who went every day toa great rock in the side of a big mountain and cut out slabs forgravestones or for houses. He understood very well the kinds of stoneswanted for the different purposes, and as he was a careful workmanhe had plenty of customers. For a long time he was quite happy andcontented, and asked for nothing better than what he had.Now in the mountain dwelt a spirit which now and then appeared tomen, and helped them in many ways to become rich and prosperous. Thestone cutter, however, had never seen this spirit, and only shook hishead, with an unbelieving air, when anyone spoke of it. But a time wascoming when he learned to change his opinion.One day the stone cutter carried a gravestone to the house of a richman, and saw there all sorts of beautiful things, of which he had nevereven dreamed. Suddenly his daily work seemed to grow harder and heavier,and he said to himself: 'Oh, if only I were a rich man, and could sleepin a bed with silken curtains and golden tassels, how happy I shouldbe!'And a voice answered him: 'Your wish is heard. a rich man you shall be!'At the sound of the voice the stone cutter looked round, but could seenobody. He thought it was all his fancy, and picked up his tools andwent home, for he did not feel inclined to do any more work that day.But when he reached the little house where he lived, he stood still withamazement, for instead of his wooden hut was a stately palace filledwith splendid furniture, and most splendid of all was the bed, in everyrespect like the one he had envied. He was nearly beside himself withjoy, and in his new life the old one was soon forgotten.It was now the beginning of summer, and each day the sun blazed morefiercely. One morning the heat was so great that the stone cutter couldscarcely breathe, and he determined he would stay at home till theevening. He was rather dull, for he had never learned how to amusehimself, and was peeping through the closed blinds to see what was goingon in the street, when a little carriage passed by, drawn by servantsdressed in blue and silver. In the carriage sat a prince, and over hishead a golden umbrella was held, to protect him from the sun's rays.'Oh, if I were only a prince!' said the stone cutter to himself, as thecarriage vanished round the corner. 'Oh, if I were only a prince, andcould go in such a carriage and have a golden umbrella held over me, howhappy I should be!'And the voice of the mountain spirit answered: 'Your wish is heard. aprince you shall be.'And a prince he was. Before his carriage rode one company of men andanother behind it. servants dressed in scarlet and gold bore him along,the coveted umbrella was held over his head, everything heart coulddesire was his. But yet it was not enough. He looked round still forsomething to wish for, and when he saw that in spite of the water hepoured on his grass the rays of the sun scorched it, and that in spiteof the umbrella held over his head each day his face grew browner andbrowner, he cried in his anger: 'The sun is mightier than I. oh, if Iwere only the sun!'And the mountain spirit answered: 'Your wish is heard. the sun you shallbe.'And the sun he was, and felt himself proud in his power. He shot hisbeams above and below, on earth and in heaven. he burnt up the grass inthe fields and scorched the faces of princes as well as of poorer folk.But in a short time he began to grow tired of his might, for thereseemed nothing left for him to do. Discontent once more filled his soul,and when a cloud covered his face, and hid the earth from him, he criedin his anger: 'Does the cloud hold captive my rays, and is it mightierthan I? Oh, that I were a cloud, and mightier than any!'And the mountain spirit answered: 'Your wish is heard. a cloud you shallbe!'And a cloud he was, and lay between the sun and the earth. He caught thesun's beams and held them, and to his joy the earth grew green againand flowers blossomed. But that was not enough for him, and for days andweeks he poured forth rain till the rivers overflowed their banks, andthe crops of rice stood in water. Towns and villages were destroyed bythe power of the rain, only the great rock on the mountain side remainedunmoved. The cloud was amazed at the sight, and cried in wonder: 'Is therock, then, mightier than I? Oh, if I were only the rock!'And the mountain spirit answered: 'Your wish is heard. the rock youshall be!And the rock he was, and gloried in his power. Proudly he stood, andneither the heat of the sun nor the force of the rain could move him.'This is better than all!' he said to himself. But one day he heard astrange noise at his feet, and when he looked down to see what it couldbe, he saw a stone cutter driving tools into his surface. Even while helooked a trembling feeling ran all through him, and a great block brokeoff and fell upon the ground. Then he cried in his wrath: 'Is a merechild of earth mightier than a rock? Oh, if I were only a man!'And the mountain spirit answered: 'Your wish is heard. A man once moreyou shall be!'And a man he was, and in the sweat of his brow he toiled again at histrade of stone cutting. His bed was hard and his food scanty, but hehad learned to be satisfied with it, and did not long to be somethingor somebody else. And as he never asked for things he had not got, ordesired to be greater and mightier than other people, he was happy atlast, and heard the voice of the mountain spirit no longer.