Saddened at the loss of his wealth, a miller went into the woods where he met a strange man who asked him why he was so sad. The miller told him the cause of his sorrow, upon which the stranger promised him a large sum of money in return for whatever was just now behind his mill. Thinking that it was nothing more than the dust that settled there from the milling, he accepted the offer, signing the contract with his blood.He received the money and returned home with it, then told his wife how he had come by it. She told him that he had promised his daughter to the devil. At the fateful moment she had been behind the mill separating grain kernels from the dust, prior to cooking them to eat.They were greatly saddened, but decided to tell their daughter nothing.That night the Evil One came to the mill and knocked on the door. The daughter opened it, but because she was a pious girl, at bedtime having sprinkled herself with holy water in the names of the three Holiest Ones, the devil was not able to take her away. Instead he just pushed her away. The same thing happened the following night, after which the miller   as commanded by the Evil One   did away with the holy water. On the third night, having no holy water, the girl blessed herself with water that had condensed on the window. As a result, when the devil returned that night he was again unable to do anything to her.The next morning she told her parents what had happened in the previous three nights, whereupon they revealed everything to her. With that she laid her hand on a block and with an axe chopped it off herself. Then she had her other hand chopped off and granted both hands to the devil, upon which they immediately disappeared.She then left home, praying fervently and crossing herself with her arms. She came to a beautiful garden next to the royal palace. In order to still her hunger she picked up a few apples with her mouth and ate them. Her wounds were still bleeding, and thus the prince discovered her tracks. He followed them for two days without success, but on the third day   with the help of his dog   he found the girl peacefully sleeping in the brush.She pleased him so much that he married her. She did not become proud, remaining instead her pious and humble self.Some time later he had to go off to war, and during his absence she gave birth to twin boys. She informed the prince of the good news in a letter. The messenger carrying the letter fell asleep at a forest spring. The Evil One came and substituted the princess's letter with one describing the most terrible things that the princess ostensibly had done. The prince wrote back that one should treat his wife with the utmost respect, but the messenger again fell asleep at the spring, and the devil again substituted a false letter for the true one. The false letter commanded that the princess and her children be driven out. This was done, with one child tied to her breast and the other one tied to her back.Suffering from thirst, she came to a spring, but because of the children she could not bend down to drink. She called upon God for help, and at once a man approached her. He untied the children and told her to lay her arms on the stump that suddenly appeared before her. On it were her chopped off hands. She did what the man told her to, and he healed her. Immediately she was able to use her hands again.She then came to a wilderness where there was no shelter. She prayed fervently, and behold, suddenly a little hut was standing there, complete with furnishings and provisions. With thanks she settled there, living the pious life of a hermit. Whenever she ran out of food, her prayers were answered, and fresh food appeared.Years passed, and one evening a man came to her hut and asked for shelter. Because she had only one bed, she had him sleep on a bench.In the night he heard how the children said to each other, "If only we could see our father."In the morning he asked her about this, and learned from her how she had been driven out."If you had no hands, I would think that you were my wife, who was driven away without cause. Since the war I have been seeking her for many years," he said.She then told him how she had received her hands again, showing him how they had healed. They then recognized each other, and together with their children they all rejoiced.The prince decided to share a hermit's life with her. In answer to the wife's prayers a larger hut suddenly stood in place of the smaller one, with more furnishings and provisions. And here they served God until their blessed end.