One evening a traveling journeyman came to an inn, and because he hadbeen strenuously walking for several days in a row, he decided to rest afew days. It didn't bother him that his purse would not cover his costs.The innkeeper got wind of this, and one evening he said, "My goodfriend, you are now well rested. Be so good as to be on your way early inthe morning. Here is the bill for what you owe me."This brought bothchills and fever to journeyman, who asked the innkeeper if he at leastcould not wait until tomorrow to be paid. "Tomorrow," he said, "is onemore day.""Good," said the innkeeper, "but be careful that you don'tend up in the Black Tower Inn. Around here that's where folks stay who eatand drink more than their purses will cover."As soon as the innkeeperhad left, the journeyman threw himself onto his bed, but fear and worrykept him awake the entire night. Then suddenly a black figure approachedhis bed, and the journeyman recognized him as the devil for sure.Hesaid, "Fear not, my dear companion, if you'll provide the sausage, I'llbring the drinks. Lend me a hand, and I'll help you out of yourpredicament.""Doing what?" asked the journeyman."Just stay here inthis inn for seven years," said the devil. "I'll keep you out of debt andprovide you with everything you need. Afterward you'll be even better off,and you'll have money like the leaves on trees. In return for this youmust neither wash yourself, nor comb your hair, nor cut your hair ornails.""That job is worth the pay," thought the journeyman, and heentered the agreement without further hesitation.When the innkeeperappeared the next morning, the journeyman paid him every last penny thatwas due, and he still had a good surplus for future bills.The journeyman stayed at the inn for years and days, spending money as thoughit were sand on the beach. But he became as wild as the night, and no onewanted to look at him. One fine morning a merchant who lived nearby cameto the inn. He had three strikingly beautiful daughters. He had come totell his sorrows to the innkeeper, for he had badly miscalculated in abusiness deal and did not know how he was going to get out of thedifficulty."Listen," said the innkeeper. "There's help for you here. Astrange fellow has been living upstairs in my rented room for more thansix years now. He lets himself go completely, and looks as bad as sin, buthe has money like hay, and is a free spender. Give him a try. Anyway, I'velong noticed that he often stares at your house. Who knows, perhaps he'sgot his eye on one of your daughters.This advice made good sense to the merchant. He went upstairs to the journeyman, and the two of them soon struck a deal. The journeyman would pay the merchant's debts, and the merchant would give one of his daughters to the journeyman in marriage.However, when they went to the three daughters, and the fatherexplained the situation to them, the oldest one ran away, crying out,"Phooey, father! What sort of a monster is this that you've brought home?I'd sooner jump into water than to marry him."The second daughter didno better. She cried out, "Phooey, father! What sort of a creature is thisthat you've brought home? I'd sooner hang myself than to marry him."But the third and youngest daughter said, "He must be a good man,father, if he wants to rescue you. I'll take him."She turned her eyesto the floor and did not look at him, but he took a great liking to her,and the wedding was set.The seven years that the devil had demandedwere now past. On the morning of the wedding day a splendid coach,sparkling with gold and precious stones, drove up to the merchant's house.Out jumped the journeyman, who had now become a fine young nobleman.The bride breathed a sigh of relief, and there was endless rejoicing.The wedding party went to the church in a long procession, for themerchant and the innkeeper had invited all their relatives.Only the happy bride's two older sisters did not participate. They angrily tooktheir own lives, the one at the end of a rope, the other in water. And asthe bridegroom was leaving the church, he saw the devil again, the firsttime in seven years. He was sitting on a roof, laughing with satisfaction,and saying: Partner, I did better than you, You got one,and I got two.