Little Hunchback was but a poor, melancholy creature,an object of pity to the compassionate, and alaughing stock to the thoughtless and foolish. He wasdeformed from the day of his birth, with his weak kneesthat bent under him, and a large lump between hisshoulders.When he reached boyhood, he was uglierand more deformed than he had been even in his childhood.He never went out of doors but a crowd ofnaughty children followed, laughing at him and mocking him.Their cruel conduct made him so shy andunsociable that he avoided their company, and he passedhis time day after day alone in the Willow Brake, whichstood at a short distance from his mother's house. Hisneighbors noticed where he was accustomed to go,and nicknamed him the Hunchback of the WillowBrake.On a certain evening, after suffering much ridiculefrom the children of the town where he lived, he fledwith a sore heart and weeping eyes to the Willow Brakefor shelter. He had not gone far into the wood, whenhe was met by the very prettiest little babe hehad ever seen. The babe was a fairy woman,but he could not afterwards give a full description ofher appearance, nor had he any recollection of herattire, beyond this, that about her shoulders was a greenmantle, which was bound with a golden girdle abouther waist, and that on her head was a green cap, witha tuft of silver feathers waving from its crown."Where are you going?" said the fairy."I am going to pass the evening in the WillowBrake," replied Hunchback."Have you no companion at all with whom you canplay?" said she then."No. none will keep company with me, since I amnot like other children," said Hunchback.At last she asked his name, and he told her it wasHunchback."Hunchback!" she exclaimed. "It is long sincewe expected to meet you. I am Play of Sunbeam, andmy joy is making the world merry. Come with me,my people are expecting you, and pass the night withus, and in the morning you will have neither disabilitynor defect."He went cheerfully with her, until they arrived at theback of the Big Fairy Knoll."Shut your eyes, and give me your hand," said the fairy.He did as she told him, and presently they were in the verygrandest mansion he had ever seen. She dragged himup through the midst of the company, singing merrily:Silence, all ye!Sunbeam's back hither.Hunchback and sheHave come together."Success and happiness attend Play of Sunbeam!"said a handsome maiden, who was more finely dressedthan the rest, and who wore on her head a gold crownfull of jewels."What does she wish us to do for poor Hunchback?"For pain to give him lustihead,And, good man's wish, a thriving trade.And Play of Sunbeam will be merry and glad.And then away she went dancing, and without castinganother look on Hunchback."When is Play of Sunbeam otherwise?" said theQueen, "and according to her request let it be."The other fairies seized him, and when he thoughtthat they had pulled him to pieces among them theylet him go, and he was as straight and active as hebehoved to be. Then he heard the sweetest music hehad ever listened to, and joy filled his heart, and hebegan to dance with the little people that were on thefloor, and stopped not until he fell, unable to standwith fatigue. He had not lain but a short time on thefloor, till sleep crept over him, and he felt the fairiescarrying him away through the air, and the soft, sadmusic receding further and further from him.At length he awoke, and on looking round, he foundhimself lying in the Willow Brake. He rose, and returned home.He had been away a year and a day.and in that time so great a change had come over himthat it was with difficulty that his own mother knewhim. She rejoiced at his coming, and after that foundhim a great help, for now he had a hand for everytrade.Among the youngsters who used to mock at him wasa boy that bore the nickname of Punchy. Punchy wasa little ugly creature, with hands and feet like the pawsof a frog, and a big hump between his shoulders. Whenhe saw how Hunchback had returned, as straight as arush and as gay as a calf herd, he made friends withhim, and rested not until Hunchback had told himeverything that had happened, from the evening hewent to the Willow Brake, till he came back again.He laid a vow, however, on Punchy, not to tell it to aliving being, because he himself was under a promiseto the fairies to keep it secret. Punchy promised to doas was requested of him.On that very evening Punchy went to the WillowBrake, expecting to meet one of the fairies who wouldheal him as Hunchback was healed. but he saw none.Evening after evening he continued going to the sameplace, until at last he saw a small manikin, sitting atthe root of a holly bush, and gazing with a mockingsmile on his countenance."Are you Play of Sunbeam?" said Punchy."I am not, but I am Never Mind Who," replied themanikin. "What is your business with Play of Sunbeam?""O, that she will take this hump off me, as she tookthe hunch off Hunchback," said Punchy. "Will youtake me to the place where she dwells?""I will do that," said Never Mind Who, "but youwill get leave to come out of it as you like.""I do not care how I get out, if I get in, and if thisugly hump is taken off me."The little manikin gave a loud laugh, and then wentaway with Punchy to the Big Fairy Knoll, and tookhim in, as Hunchback was taken."Who is this come to us without invitation or tryst?"cried the Queen, looking sternly at Punchy."It is a toad named Punchy whom Hunchback hassent on a chance journey, in the hope that his humpwill be taken off him," replied Never Mind Who."Did Hunchback break his vow and his promise, thatnever of his own accord would he tell any one how itfared with him here?" said the Queen, turning towardsPunchy with wrath in her countenance."No," replied Punchy, "for he told me nothinguntil I first prayed and entreated him.""You impudent fellow," said she, "you will getyour deserts," and immediately she cried to the otherfairies: "Throw the hunch on the hump, and the one loadwill take them home.""The hunch on the hump, the hunch on the hump,"screamed all the fairies. and then they laid hold ofPunchy by his hands and his feet, and tossed him upand down, to this side and that, till he lost all consciousness.When he came to himself, he lay in the WillowBrake, the hump twice its former size, and his bonesso tired and bruised that he could scarcely move. Witha great effort he got to his feet, and then crept home.but to the day of his death he told no one except Hunchbackwhat happened to him in the Big Fairy Knoll.