Once upon a time there lived an old man and an old woman. The old man,who had a kind heart, kept a young sparrow, which he tenderly nurtured.But the dame was a cross grained old thing. and one day, when the sparrowhad pecked at some paste with which she was going to starch her linen,she flew into a great rage, and cut the sparrow's tongue and let it loose.When the old man came home from the hills and found that the bird hadflown, he asked what had become of it. so the old woman answered that shehad cut its tongue and let it go, because it had stolen herstarching paste. Now the old man, hearing this cruel tale, was sorelygrieved, and thought to himself: "Alas! Where can my bird be gone? Poorthing! Poor little tongue cut sparrow! Where is your home now?" and hewandered far and wide, seeking for his pet, and crying: "Mr. Sparrow!Mr. Sparrow! Where are you living?"One day, at the foot of a certain mountain, the old man fell in with thelost bird. and when they had congratulated one another on their mutualsafety, the sparrow led the old man to his home, and, having introducedhim to his wife and chicks, set before him all sorts of dainties, andentertained him hospitably."Please partake of our humble fare," said the sparrow. Poor as it is,you are very welcome.""What a polite sparrow!" answered the old man, who remained for a longtime as the sparrow's guest, and was daily feasted right royally. Atlast the old man said that he must take his leave and return home. andthe bird, offering him two wicker baskets, begged him to carry them withhim as a parting present. One of the baskets was heavy, and the otherwas light. so the old man, saying that as he was feeble and stricken inyears he would only accept the light one, shouldered it, and trudged offhome, leaving the sparrow family disconsolate at parting from him.When the old man got home, the dame grew very angry, and began to scoldhim saying: "Well, and pray where have you been this many a day? Apretty thing, indeed, to be gadding about at your time of life!""Oh!" replied he, "I have been on a visit to the sparrows. and when Icame away, they gave me this wicker basket as a parting gift." Then theyopened the basket to see what was inside, and, lo and behold, it was fullof gold and silver and precious things. When the old woman, who was asgreedy as she was cross, saw all the riches displayed before her, shechanged her scolding strain, and could not contain herself for joy."I'll go and call upon the sparrows, too," said she, "and get a prettypresent." So she asked the old man the way to the sparrows' house, andset forth on her journey.Following his direction, she at last met the tongue cut sparrow, andexclaimed: "Well met! Well met, Mr. Sparrow! I have been lookingforward to the pleasure of seeing you." So she tried to flatter andcajole the sparrow by soft speeches.The bird could not but invite the dame to its home. but it took no painsto feast her, and said nothing about a parting gift. She, however, wasnot to be put off. so she asked for something to carry away with her inremembrance of her visit. The sparrow accordingly produced two baskets,as before, and the greedy old woman, choosing the heavier of the two,carried it off with her. But when she opened the basket to see what wasinside, all sorts of hobgoblins and elves sprang out of it, and began totorment her.But the old man adopted a son, and his family grew rich and prosperous.What a happy old man!