Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified byaccounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate ofRashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victimswere never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horriblecannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also.Now everybody in the town and neighborhood was in great fear, and noone durst venture out after sunset near the Gate of Rashomon.Now at this time there lived in Kyoto a general named Raiko, who hadmade himself famous for his brave deeds. Some time before this he madethe country ring with his name, for he had attacked Oeyama, where aband of ogres lived with their chief, who instead of wine drank theblood of human beings. He had routed them all and cut off the head ofthe chief monster.This brave warrior was always followed by a band of faithful knights.In this band there were five knights of great valor. One evening as thefive knights sat at a feast quaffing SAKE in their rice bowls andeating all kinds of fish, raw, and stewed, and broiled, and toastingeach other's healths and exploits, the first knight, Hojo, said to theothers:"Have you all heard the rumor that every evening after sunset therecomes an ogre to the Gate of Rashomon, and that he seizes all who passby?"The second knight, Watanabe, answered him, saying:"Do not talk such nonsense! All the ogres were killed by our chiefRaiko at Oeyama! It cannot be true, because even if any ogres didescape from that great killing they would not dare to show themselvesin this city, for they know that our brave master would at once attackthem if he knew that any of them were still alive!""Then do you disbelieve what I say, and think that I am telling you afalsehood?""No, I do not think that you are telling a lie," said Watanabe. "butyou have heard some old woman's story which is not worth believing.""Then the best plan is to prove what I say, by going there yourself andfinding out yourself whether it is true or not," said Hojo.Watanabe, the second knight, could not bear the thought that hiscompanion should believe he was afraid, so he answered quickly:"Of course, I will go at once and find out for myself!"So Watanabe at once got ready to go he buckled on his long sword andput on a coat of armor, and tied on his large helmet. When he was readyto start he said to the others:"Give me something so that I can prove I have been there!"Then one of the men got a roll of writing paper and his box of Indianink and brushes, and the four comrades wrote their names on a piece ofpaper."I will take this," said Watanabe, "and put it on the Gate of Rashomon,so to morrow morning will you all go and look at it? I may be able tocatch an ogre or two by then!" and he mounted his horse and rode offgallantly.It was a very dark night, and there was neither moon nor star to lightWatanabe on his way. To make the darkness worse a storm came on, therain fell heavily and the wind howled like wolves in the mountains. Anyordinary man would have trembled at the thought of going out of doors,but Watanabe was a brave warrior and dauntless, and his honor and wordwere at stake, so he sped on into the night, while his companionslistened to the sound of his horse's hoofs dying away in the distance,then shut the sliding shutters close and gathered round the charcoalfire and wondered what would happen and whether their comrade wouldencounter one of those horrible Oni.At last Watanabe reached the Gate of Rashomon, but peer as he mightthrough the darkness he could see no sign of an ogre."It is just as I thought," said Watanabe to himself. "there arecertainly no ogres here. it is only an old woman's story. I will stickthis paper on the gate so that the others can see I have been here whenthey come to morrow, and then I will take my way home and laugh at themall."He fastened the piece of paper, signed by all his four companions, onthe gate, and then turned his horse's head towards home.As he did so he became aware that some one was behind him, and at thesame time a voice called out to him to wait. Then his helmet was seizedfrom the back. "Who are you?" said Watanabe fearlessly. He then put outhis hand and groped around to find out who or what it was that held himby the helmet. As he did so he touched something that felt like anarm it was covered with hair and as big round as the trunk of a tree!Watanabe knew at once that this was the arm of an ogre, so he drew hissword and cut at it fiercely.There was a loud yell of pain, and then the ogre dashed in front of thewarrior.Watanabe's eyes grew large with wonder, for he saw that the ogre wastaller than the great gate, his eyes were flashing like mirrors in thesunlight, and his huge mouth was wide open, and as the monsterbreathed, flames of fire shot out of his mouth.The ogre thought to terrify his foe, but Watanabe never flinched. Heattacked the ogre with all his strength, and thus they fought face toface for a long time. At last the ogre, finding that he could neitherfrighten nor beat Watanabe and that he might himself be beaten, took toflight. But Watanabe, determined not to let the monster escape, putspurs to his horse and gave chase.But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster, and to hisdisappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster, who wasgradually lost to sight.Watanabe returned to the gate where the fierce fight had taken place,and got down from his horse. As he did so he stumbled upon somethinglying on the ground.Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre's huge armswhich he must have slashed off in the fight. His joy was great athaving secured such a prize, for this was the best of all proofs of hisadventure with the ogre. So he took it up carefully and carried it homeas a trophy of his victory.When he got back, he showed the arm to his comrades, who one and allcalled him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast. Hiswonderful deed was soon noised abroad in Kyoto, and people from far andnear came to see the ogre's arm.Watanabe now began to grow uneasy as to how he should keep the arm insafety, for he knew that the ogre to whom it belonged was still alive.He felt sure that one day or other, as soon as the ogre got over hisscare, he would come to try to get his arm back again. Watanabetherefore had a box made of the strongest wood and banded with iron. Inthis he placed the arm, and then he sealed down the heavy lid, refusingto open it for anyone. He kept the box in his own room and took chargeof it himself, never allowing it out of his sight.Now one night he heard some one knocking at the porch, asking foradmittance.When the servant went to the door to see who it was, there was only anold woman, very respectable in appearance. On being asked who she wasand what was her business, the old woman replied with a smile that shehad been nurse to the master of the house when he was a little baby. Ifthe lord of the house were at home she begged to be allowed to see him.The servant left the old woman at the door and went to tell his masterthat his old nurse had come to see him. Watanabe thought it strangethat she should come at that time of night, but at the thought of hisold nurse, who had been like a foster mother to him and whom he had notseen for a long time, a very tender feeling sprang up for her in hisheart. He ordered the servant to show her in.The old woman was ushered into the room, and after the customary bowsand greetings were over, she said:"Master, the report of your brave fight with the ogre at the Gate ofRashomon is so widely known that even your poor old nurse has heard ofit. Is it really true, what every one says, that you cut off one of theogre's arms? If you did, your deed is highly to be praised!""I was very disappointed," said Watanabe, "that I was not able take themonster captive, which was what I wished to do, instead of only cuttingoff an arm!""I am very proud to think," answered the old woman, "that my master wasso brave as to dare to cut off an ogre's arm. There is nothing that canbe compared to your courage. Before I die it is the great wish of mylife to see this arm," she added pleadingly."No," said Watanabe, "I am sorry, but I cannot grant your request.""But why?" asked the old woman."Because," replied Watanabe, "ogres are very revengeful creatures, andif I open the box there is no telling but that the ogre may suddenlyappear and carry off his arm. I have had a box made on purpose with avery strong lid, and in this box I keep the ogre's arm secure. and Inever show it to any one, whatever happens.""Your precaution is very reasonable," said the old woman. "But I amyour old nurse, so surely you will not refuse to show ME the arm. Ihave only just heard of your brave act, and not being able to wait tillthe morning I came at once to ask you to show it to me."Watanabe was very troubled at the old woman's pleading, but he stillpersisted in refusing. Then the old woman said:"Do you suspect me of being a spy sent by the ogre?""No, of course I do not suspect you of being the ogre's spy, for youare my old nurse," answered Watanabe."Then you cannot surely refuse to show me the arm any longer."entreated the old woman. "for it is the great wish of my heart to seefor once in my life the arm of an ogre!"Watanabe could not hold out in his refusal any longer, so he gave in atlast, saying:"Then I will show you the ogre's arm, since you so earnestly wish tosee it. Come, follow me!" and he led the way to his own room, the oldwoman following.When they were both in the room Watanabe shut the door carefully, andthen going towards a big box which stood in a corner of the room, hetook off the heavy lid. He then called to the old woman to come nearand look in, for he never took the arm out of the box."What is it like? Let me have a good look at it," said the old nurse,with a joyful face.She came nearer and nearer, as if she were afraid, till she stood rightagainst the box. Suddenly she plunged her hand into the box and seizedthe arm, crying with a fearful voice which made the room shake:"Oh, joy! I have got my arm back again!"And from an old woman she was suddenly transformed into the toweringfigure of the frightful ogre!Watanabe sprang back and was unable to move for a moment, so great washis astonishment. but recognizing the ogre who had attacked him at theGate of Rashomon, he determined with his usual courage to put an end tohim this time. He seized his sword, drew it out of its sheath in aflash, and tried to cut the ogre down.So quick was Watanabe that the creature had a narrow escape. But theogre sprang up to the ceiling, and bursting through the roof,disappeared in the mist and clouds.In this way the ogre escaped with his arm. The knight gnashed his teethwith disappointment, but that was all he could do. He waited inpatience for another opportunity to dispatch the ogre. But the latterwas afraid of Watanabe's great strength and daring, and never troubledKyoto again. So once more the people of the city were able to go outwithout fear even at night time, and the brave deeds of Watanabe havenever been forgotten!