Many years ago an old soldier was discharged from the army. He received inconsideration of his excellent andfaithful service a small loaf of rye bread and three pennies, whereupon hewas at liberty to go whither he pleased.As he was walking along the highroad, he met three men. The one carriedshovel, the second a pickaxe, and thethird a spade.The soldier stopped, looked at them, and said, "Where are you going?""I will tell you," answered one of them. "Today there was buried a man whoowed each of us one penny, and nowwe will dig him up, since we are determined upon getting our dues.""What an idea!" returned the soldier. "You had better leave the dead manalone. At any rate, he is at present unableto pay you even one penny, so don't disturb his peace!""It is all very fine for you to talk," answered the man. "But we must havethe money, and up he must come."When the soldier felt that his fair words could not settle the matter, hesaid, "Here, I have two pennies. Will youtake them and promise to leave the dead man undisturbed?""Two pennies are not to be refused," said the man again, "but they willpay only two of us. What can you give thethird one, since he is bent upon having his share?"As the soldier saw that there was no dealing with these three wretches, heresumed, "Since you are so desperatelydetermined, here is my third and last penny. Take it, and be content."Now all three were well satisfied, so they pursued their way with thethree pennies in their pockets.When the soldier had advanced a distance, a stranger came walking along.He looked rather pale, but saluted thesoldier in a very civil manner, and followed him along the road withoututtering a single sound.At last they reached a church, and here the stranger turned to hiscompanion, saying, "Let us walk in!"The soldier looked wistfully at him, and answered, "That would not do.What business have we in the church atmidnight?""I tell you," replied the stranger, "we must walk in!"Upon this they entered the church and walked straight up to the altar.There was an old woman sitting with aburning light in her hand."Take a hair from her head, and smell at it!" commanded the stranger.The soldier complied, but nothing remarkable happened. The stranger askedhim to repeat the action, which hedid. but there was no effect. The third time, however, when he tore awhole tuft of hair from the woman's head,she became so furious that she darted off, out above the church, carryingthe whole leaden vault with her.The two men went out of the church and down to the beach, where they foundthe whole leaden vault. Turning tothe soldier, the stranger said, "Sit up. We will put to sea!""Is that so?" remarked the soldier, who understood nothing of all this. "Isee no ship, however.""Let me manage it all," says the stranger. "Just seat yourself by me onthe vault! Beyond the sea there is a princessof whom it was predicted that she would be married only to a man whoshould come across the sea in a leadenship. Here you will be able to make your fortune."The leaden vault now floated out upon the open sea, and landed them safelyon the other side. Great was the joyand happiness throughout the country, and the marriage between the soldierand the princess was celebratedwith such pomp and splendor as was never seen, before or after.When the ceremony had been performed, and the carriage was standing infront of the church door, bride andgroom entered, with the stranger who had followed the soldier all along.The coachman asked to what place hemight drive them."Drive away, as fast as you can, towards the side where the sun willrise," said the stranger, and in a little while theywere carried along at a furious rate.Somewhere they saw a large herd of cattle. They stopped, and the soldiercalled the herdsman to the carriage door,asking who he was. "I am the Count of Ravensburg," answered the shepherd,"and yonder is my castle."The stranger again bid the coachman drive as fast as possible. In a littlewhile they rushed up to RavensburgCastle. As they were ready to alight from the carriage, there was someonewho knocked hard at the gate. It was theherdsman, who was anxious to come in. The stranger walked to the gate,inquiring what, he could do for him. Hewished to come into the castle, he said, for it belonged to him, and hehad a right to demand admittance. Thestranger meditated a little, whereupon he told the herdsman, who was aconjurer, that he might be allowed tocome in, but first he must suffer the whole fate of the rye."The fate of the rye!" repeated the conjurer. "What do you mean by that?""I mean," answered the stranger, "that next fall you must be sown deep inthe ground, and towards spring, whenyou come up, you must ripen in the sunshine and grow in the rain until youare ready for the harvest. Then youwill be mowed and dried, and kept in the barn, until at length you will bethreshed.""How is that!" cried the conjurer. "Am I to be threshed?""Of course you are," replied the stranger. "First you will be threshed,and then taken to the mill and ground.""Ground, too!" shouted the conjurer. "Will I be ground also?""Yes, both ground and sifted," answered the stranger.But the conjurer, hearing this, became so furious that he burst all intoflint stones.The stranger now bid good bye to the princess and the soldier, shook handswith them, and said, "Now I have seenyou married to the princess. The troll of Ravensburg is dead and gone, andhis castle, with all its treasures, isyours. I was as good to you as you were to me when you gave away yourthree pennies for my sake!""What do you say?" exclaimed the soldier. "I never thought of those threepennies again!""I know that," answered the stranger, "and otherwise I would not have beenable to help you. However, I bidfarewell to you and your, wife, for I must return to the place where Ibelong."