Ahmed was the only child of the wealthiest merchant in Damascus. Hisfather devoted his days to doing everything possible to anticipate hiswishes. The boy returned his father's love with interest, and the twolived together in the utmost happiness. They were seldom apart, thefather curtailing his business journeys so that he could hastilyreturn to Damascus, and finally restricting his affairs to those whichhe could perform in his own home.For safety's sake, Ahmed, whenever he was out of his father's sight,was attended, by a big negro slave, Pedro, an imposing looking person,richly attired as befitted his station and duties. Pedro was afaithful servant, and he and Ahmed were the firmest friends.When Ahmed grew up to be a youth, his father decided to send him toJerusalem to be educated. He did so reluctantly, knowing, however,that it was the wisest course to adopt Gently he broke the news toAhmed, for he knew the latter would dislike to leave home. Ahmed wastruly sorry to have to be parted from his father, but he kept back histears and said bravely:"It is thy wish, father, therefore I question it not. I know that thoudesirest only my welfare.""Well spoken, my son," said his father."May I take Pedro with me?" asked Ahmed."Nay, that would not be seemly," answered his father, gently. "Itwould make thee appear anxious to display thy wealth. Such ostentationwill induce people to regard thee and thy father as foolish persons,possessed of more wealth than is good for the exercise of wisdom.Also, my son, thy future teaching must be not confined to the learningthat wise men can impart unto thee. Thou art going to the great cityto learn the ways of the world, to train thyself in self reliance, andto prepare thyself for all the duties of manhood."The youth was somewhat disappointed to hear this. It was the firstoccasion, as far as his memory served him, that his father had failedto grant his wish. but he was nevertheless flattered by the prospectof quickly becoming a man, and he answered, "I bow to thy wisdom, myfather."He left for Jerusalem, after bidding the merchant an affectionatefarewell, and in the Holy City he applied himself diligently to hisstudies. He delighted his teachers with his cheerful attention to hislessons, and discovered a new source of happiness in learning thingsfor himself from observation. Also, it was a pleasant sensation toconduct his own affairs, and in the great city, with its busy narrowthoroughfares and its wonderful buildings, he daily grew lesshomesick. Regularly he received letters by messengers from his father,and dutifully he returned, by the same means, long epistles, settingout all the big and little things that made up his life.A year passed, and one day the usual message that Ahmed expected cameto him in a strange hand writing.He opened it hastily, with a foreboding of evil and alarm. The writerof the letter was one of the merchant's closest friends. He said:"O worthy son of a most worthy father, greeting to thee, and may Godgive thee strength to hear the terrible and sad tidings which it is mysorrowful duty to convey unto thee. Know then that it hath pleasedGod in his wisdom to call from this earth thy saintly father, to sitwith the righteous ones in Heaven. Here in the city of Damascus thereis great weeping, for thy honored father was the most upright of men,a friend to all in distress, a man whose bounteous charity to the poorand unfortunate was unsurpassed. But our grief, deep and heartfelt asit is, cannot be compared to thine. We have all lost a wise counselor,a trusty friend, a guide in all things. But thou hast lost more. Thouhast lost a father. Thou art his only son, and on thee his duties willnow devolve. Know then thy profound grief we share with thee. Wetender to thee our sincere sympathy, and eagerly do we await thycoming. Thou hast a noble position to occupy and a tradition tocontinue. We, thy father's friends and thine, O Ahmed, will assistthee."The young man was dumbfounded when he gathered the purport of theletter. For some moments he spoke not, but sat on the ground, weepingsilently. Then, remembering his father's admonitions, he promptly tookup the task of settling his affairs in Jerusalem prior to hisdeparture for Damascus."I will take with me," he said, "the good rabbi who has been myreligious instructor, for I am not fully prepared to undertake all theduties that will fall to my lot and need some strengthening counsel."On arrival at Damascus he was greeted by a large concourse of peoplewho expressed their sympathy with him and spoke in terms of highestpraise of his father's benevolence.After the funeral, Ahmed called the leading townspeople together tohear his father's will read, for he was certain that many gifts tocharities would be announced. Such was the case, and there weresubdued murmurs of applause when the amounts were read forth.Then suddenly the friend who had written to the young man and wasreading the will, paused."I fear there must be a mistake," he said, in a whisper to Ahmed."Go on," urged the assembled people, and the man read in a strangevoice:"And now, having as I hope, faithfully performed my duty to the poor,I bequeath the rest of my possessions unto my devoted negro slave,Pedro.""Pedro!" cried the astonished crowd.They looked at the massive figure of the black attendant, but he stoodmotionless and impassive, betraying no sign whatsoever of joy orsurprise.Ahmed could not conceal his bewilderment."Is naught left unto me?" he managed to ask."Yes," returned his friend, and amid a sudden silence, he continued toread: "This bequest is subject to the following proviso: that onething be given to my son before the division of my property, the sameto be selected by him within twenty four hours of the reading of thiswill unto him."The crowd melted away with mutterings of sympathy mingled withastonishment, but out of earshot of Ahmed, all said the merchant musthave been mad to draw up so absurd a testament. Ahmed himself couldhardly realize the great blow that had befallen him. He consulted withhis father's friend and the rabbi, but, although they re read thedocument many times, they could find no fault or flaw in it."Legally, this is correct and in perfect order and cannot be altered,"said the friend."My father must have made a foolish mistake and must have misplacedthe two words 'son' and 'slave,'" said Ahmed, bitterly."That does not so appear," said the rabbi. "thy father was a scholarand wise man. Speak not hastily, and above all act not rashly withoutthought. I would counsel thee to sleep over this matter, and in themorning we shall solve this puzzle."Ahmed, who was exhausted with grief and rage and surprise, soon fellinto a deep sleep, and when he awoke the rabbi was reciting hismorning prayers."It is a beautiful day," he said, when he had finished. "The sunshines on thy happiness, Ahmed."Ahmed was too depressed to make any comment, nor was he completelysatisfied when the rabbi assured him all would be well."I have pondered deeply and long over thy father's words," he said. "Isat up through the night until the dawn, and I have been impelled tothe conclusion that thy father was truly a wise man."Ahmed interrupted with a gesture of disapproval. The rabbi took nonotice but proceeded quietly: "Thy father must have feared that in thyabsence after his death and pending thy possible delay in returninghither, slaves and others might rob thee of thy inheritance. Pedro, Ihave discovered, knew of the terms of the will. By informing him andmaking his strange will, thy father, O fortunate Ahmed, made sure ofthy inheritance unto thee.""I understand not," muttered Ahmed."It is perfectly clear," said the rabbi. "As soon as thou art ready,thou shalt make thy choice of one thing. Do as I bid thee, and thoushalt see thy father's wisdom."Ahmed had no option but to agree. He could find no solution himself,and wretched though he felt, reason told him that his father loved himand that the rabbi was renowned for shrewdness.The townspeople gathered early to hear Ahmed make his choice of onething and one only from his father's possessions. Ahmed looked lesstroubled than they expected, the rabbi wore his most benignexpression, and Pedro stationed himself in his usual place at thedoor, statuesque, obedient, and expressionless as ever.Ahmed held up his hand to obtain silence."Acting under the terms of my father's will," he said, solemnly, "atthis moment when all, before division, belongs to his estate, I choosebut one of my father's possessions Pedro, the black slave."Then everybody saw the wisdom of the strange will, for with Pedro,Ahmed became possessed of his father's vast wealth.To Pedro, who still stood motionless, Ahmed said, "And thou, my goodfriend, shalt have thy freedom and possessions sufficient to keep theein comfort for the rest of thy days.""I desire naught but to serve thee," Pedro answered, "I wish to remainthe faithful attendant of one who will follow nobly in the footstepsof thy father."So everybody was satisfied.(: He crouched on his throne and imagined he sawangels and demons and fairies. (_Page 241_).)