Once upon a time there lived an old sheep in a low lying valley of Tibet,and every year she, with her lamb, were in the habit of leaving the valleyduring the early months of summer, and going up on to the great northernplateau, where grass is plentiful, and where many sheep and goats grazethroughout the summer. One spring the sheep, in accordance with her annualcustom, set out for the north, and one day, as she was strolling sedatelyalong the path, while her little lamb skipped about beside her, shesuddenly came face to face with a large, fierce looking wolf."Good morning, Aunty Sheep," said the wolf. "where are you going to?""Oh! Uncle Wolf," replied the trembling sheep, "we are doing no harm. I amjust taking my lamb to graze on the rich grass of the great northernplateau."" Well," said the wolf, " I am really very sorry for you. but the fact is,I am hungry, and it will be necessary for me to eat you both on the spot.""Please, please, Uncle Wolf, don't do that," replied the sheep. "Pleasedon't eat us now. but if you will wait till the autumn, when we shall bothbe very much fatter than we are now, you can eat us with much more benefitto yourself on our return journey."The wolf thought this was a good idea. "Very well, Aunty Sheep," said he,"that is a bargain. I will spare your lives now, but only on conditionthat you meet me at this very spot on your return journey from the northin the autumn."So saying, he galloped off, and the sheep and the lamb continued on theirway towards the north, and soon forgot all about their encounter with thewolf. All the summer they grazed about on the succulent grass of the greatplateau, and when autumn was approaching both were as fat as fat could be,and the little lamb had grown into a fine young sheep.When the time came for returning to the south, the sheep remembered herbargain with the wolf, and every day as they drew farther and farthersouth she grew more and more downhearted. One day, as they wereapproaching the place where they had met the wolf, it chanced that a harecame hopping along the road towards them.The hare stopped to say good morning to the sheep, and noticing that shewas looking very sad, he said, "Good morning, Sister Sheep, how is it thatyou, who are so fat and have so fine a lamb, are looking so sad thismorning?""Oh! Brother Hare," replied the sheep, "mine is a very sad story. The factis that last spring, as I and my lamb were coming up this very road, wemet an ugly  looking wolf, who said he was going to eat us. but I beggedhim to spare our lives, explaining to him that we should both be muchlarger and fatter in the autumn, and that he would get much better valuefrom us if he waited till then. The wolf agreed to this, and said that wemust meet him at the same spot in the autumn. We are now very near theappointed place, and I very much fear that in another day or two we shallboth be killed by the wolf." So saying, the poor sheep broke downaltogether and burst into tears."Dear me! Dear me!" replied the hare. "This is indeed a sad story. butcheer up, Sister Sheep, you may leave it to me, and I think I can answerfor it that I know how to manage the wolf."So saying, the hare made the following arrangements. He dressed himself upin his very best clothes, in a new robe of woolen cloth, with a longearring in his left ear, and a fashionable hat on his head, and strapped asmall saddle on to the back of the sheep. He then prepared two smallbundles, which he slung across the lamb, and tied them on with a rope.When these preparations were complete, he took a large sheet of paper inhis hand, and, with a pen thrust behind his ear, he mounted upon the backof the sheep, and the little procession started off down the path.Soon after, they arrived at the place where they were to meet the wolf,and sure enough there was the wolf waiting for them at the appointed spot.As soon as they came within earshot of where the wolf was standing thehare called out in a sharp tone of authority, "Who are you, and what areyou doing there?""I am the wolf," was the reply. " and I have come here to eat this sheepand its lamb, in accordance with a regular arrangement. Who may you be,pray?""I am Lomden, the hare," that animal replied, "and I have been deputed toIndia on a special mission by the Emperor of China. And, by the way, Ihave a commission to bring ten wolf skins as a present to the King ofIndia. What a fortunate thing it is that I should have met you here! Yourskin will do for one, anyway."So saying, the hare produced his sheet of paper, and, taking his pen inhis hand, he wrote down the figure "1" very large.The wolf was so frightened on hearing this that he turned tail and fledaway ignominiously. while the sheep and the lamb, after thanking the hareheartily for his kind offices, continued their journey safely to their ownhome.