Once upon a time there lived a man whose name was Abu Nowas, and he wasa great favourite with the Sultan of the country, who had a palace inthe same town where Abu Nowas dwelt.One day Abu Nowas came weeping into the hall of the palace where theSultan was sitting, and said to him: 'Oh, mighty Sultan, my wife isdead.''That is bad news,' replied the Sultan. 'I must get you another wife.'And he bade his Grand Vizir send for the Sultana.'This poor Abu Nowas has lost his wife,' said he, when she entered thehall.'Oh, then we must get him another,' answered the Sultana. 'I have agirl that will suit him exactly,' and clapped her hands loudly. At thissignal a maiden appeared and stood before her.'I have got a husband for you,' said the Sultana.'Who is he?' asked the girl.'Abu Nowas, the jester,' replied the Sultana.'I will take him,' answered the maiden. and as Abu Nowas made noobjection, it was all arranged. The Sultana had the most beautifulclothes made for the bride, and the Sultan gave the bridegroom hiswedding suit, and a thousand gold pieces into the bargain, and softcarpets for the house.So Abu Nowas took his wife home, and for some time they were veryhappy, and spent the money freely which the Sultan had given them, neverthinking what they should do for more when that was gone. But come to anend it did, and they had to sell their fine things one by one, till atlength nothing was left but a cloak apiece, and one blanket to coverthem. 'We have run through our fortune,' said Abu Nowas, 'what are weto do now? I am afraid to go back to the Sultan, for he will commandhis servants to turn me from the door. But you shall return to yourmistress, and throw yourself at her feet and weep, and perhaps she willhelp us.''Oh, you had much better go,' said the wife. 'I shall not know what tosay.''Well, then, stay at home, if you like,' answered Abu Nowas, 'and I willask to be admitted to the Sultan's presence, and will tell him, withsobs, that my wife is dead, and that I have no money for her burial.When he hears that perhaps he will give us something.''Yes, that is a good plan,' said the wife. and Abu Nowas set out.The Sultan was sitting in the hall of justice when Abu Nowas entered,his eyes streaming with tears, for he had rubbed some pepper into them.They smarted dreadfully, and he could hardly see to walk straight, andeveryone wondered what was the matter with him.'Abu Nowas! What has happened?' cried the Sultan.'Oh, noble Sultan, my wife is dead,' wept he.'We must all die,' answered the Sultan. but this was not the reply forwhich Abu Nowas had hoped.'True, O Sultan, but I have neither shroud to wrap her in, nor moneyto bury her with,' went on Abu Nowas, in no wise abashed by the way theSultan had received his news.'Well, give him a hundred pieces of gold,' said the Sultan, turning tothe Grand Vizir. And when the money was counted out Abu Nowas bowed low,and left the hall, his tears still flowing, but with joy in his heart.'Have you got anything?' cried his wife, who was waiting for himanxiously.'Yes, a hundred gold pieces,' said he, throwing down the bag, 'but thatwill not last us any time. Now you must go to the Sultana, clothed insackcloth and robes of mourning, and tell her that your husband, AbuNowas, is dead, and you have no money for his burial. When she hearsthat, she will be sure to ask you what has become of the money and thefine clothes she gave us on our marriage, and you will answer, "beforehe died he sold everything."'The wife did as she was told, and wrapping herself in sackcloth went upto the Sultana's own palace, and as she was known to have been one ofSubida's favourite attendants, she was taken without difficulty into theprivate apartments.'What is the matter?' inquired the Sultana, at the sight of the dismalfigure.'My husband lies dead at home, and he has spent all our money, and soldeverything, and I have nothing left to bury him with,' sobbed the wife.Then Subida took up a purse containing two hundred gold pieces, andsaid: 'Your husband served us long and faithfully. You must see that hehas a fine funeral.'The wife took the money, and, kissing the feet of the Sultana, shejoyfully hastened home. They spent some happy hours planning how theyshould spend it, and thinking how clever they had been. 'When the Sultangoes this evening to Subida's palace,' said Abu Nowas, 'she will be sureto tell him that Abu Nowas is dead. "Not Abu Nowas, it is his wife," hewill reply, and they will quarrel over it, and all the time we shall besitting here enjoying ourselves. Oh, if they only knew, how angry theywould be!'As Abu Nowas had foreseen, the Sultan went, in the evening after hisbusiness was over, to pay his usual visit to the Sultana.'Poor Abu Nowas is dead!' said Subida when he entered the room.'It is not Abu Nowas, but his wife who is dead,' answered the Sultan.'No. really you are quite wrong. She came to tell me herself only acouple of hours ago,' replied Subida, 'and as he had spent all theirmoney, I gave her something to bury him with.''You must be dreaming,' exclaimed the Sultan. 'Soon after midday AbuNowas came into the hall, his eyes streaming with tears, and when Iasked him the reason he answered that his wife was dead, and they hadsold everything they had, and he had nothing left, not so much as wouldbuy her a shroud, far less for her burial.'For a long time they talked, and neither would listen to the other, tillthe Sultan sent for the door keeper and bade him go instantly to thehouse of Abu Nowas and see if it was the man or his wife who was dead.But Abu Nowas happened to be sitting with his wife behind the latticedwindow, which looked on the street, and he saw the man coming, andsprang up at once. 'There is the Sultan's door keeper! They have senthim here to find out the truth. Quick! throw yourself on the bed andpretend that you are dead.' And in a moment the wife was stretched outstiffly, with a linen sheet spread across her, like a corpse.She was only just in time, for the sheet was hardly drawn across herwhen the door opened and the porter came in. 'Has anything happened?'asked he.'My poor wife is dead,' replied Abu Nowas. 'Look! she is laid out here.'And the porter approached the bed, which was in a corner of the room,and saw the stiff form lying underneath.'We must all die,' said he, and went back to the Sultan.'Well, have you found out which of them is dead?' asked the Sultan.'Yes, noble Sultan. it is the wife,' replied the porter.'He only says that to please you,' cried Subida in a rage. and callingto her chamberlain, she ordered him to go at once to the dwelling of AbuNowas and see which of the two was dead. 'And be sure you tell the truthabout it,' added she, 'or it will be the worse for you.'As her chamberlain drew near the house, Abu Nowas caught sight of him.'There is the Sultana's chamberlain,' he exclaimed in a fright. 'Now itis my turn to die. Be quick and spread the sheet over me.' And he laidhimself on the bed, and held his breath when the chamberlain came in.'What are you weeping for?' asked the man, finding the wife in tears.'My husband is dead,' answered she, pointing to the bed. and thechamberlain drew back the sheet and beheld Abu Nowas lying stiff andmotionless. Then he gently replaced the sheet and returned to thepalace.'Well, have you found out this time?' asked the Sultan.'My lord, it is the husband who is dead.''But I tell you he was with me only a few hours ago,' cried the Sultanangrily. 'I must get to the bottom of this before I sleep! Let my goldencoach be brought round at once.'The coach was before the door in another five minutes, and the Sultanand Sultana both got in. Abu Nowas had ceased being a dead man, and waslooking into the street when he saw the coach coming. 'Quick! quick!' hecalled to his wife. 'The Sultan will be here directly, and we must bothbe dead to receive him.' So they laid themselves down, and spread thesheet over them, and held their breath. At that instant the Sultanentered, followed by the Sultana and the chamberlain, and he went upto the bed and found the corpses stiff and motionless. 'I would give athousand gold pieces to anyone who would tell me the truth about this,'cried he, and at the words Abu Nowas sat up. 'Give them to me, then,'said he, holding out his hand. 'You cannot give them to anyone who needsthem more.''Oh, Abu Nowas, you impudent dog!' exclaimed the Sultan, bursting intoa laugh, in which the Sultana joined. 'I might have known it was one ofyour tricks!' But he sent Abu Nowas the gold he had promised, and let ushope that it did not fly so fast as the last had done.