A prize, or rather two prizes, a great one and a small one, hadbeen awarded for the greatest swiftness in running, not in a singlerace, but for the whole year."I obtained the first prize," said the hare. "Justice must stillbe carried out, even when one has relations and good friends among theprize committee. but that the snail should have received the secondprize, I consider almost an insult to myself.""No," said the fence rail, who had been a witness at thedistribution of prizes. "there should be some consideration forindustry and perseverance. I have heard many respectable people sayso, and I can quite understand it. The snail certainly took half ayear to get over the threshold of the door. but he injured himself,and broke his collar bone by the haste he made. He gave himself upentirely to the race, and ran with his house on his back, which wasall, of course, very praiseworthy. and therefore he obtained thesecond prize.""I think I ought to have had some consideration too," said theswallow. "I should imagine no one can be swifter in soaring and flightthan I am. and how far I have been! far, far away.""Yes, that is your misfortune," said the fence rail. "you are sofickle, so unsettled. you must always be travelling about into foreignlands when the cold commences here. You have no love of fatherlandin you. There can be no consideration for you.""But now, if I have been lying the whole winter in the moor," saidthe swallow, "and suppose I slept the whole time, would that betaken into account?""Bring a certificate from the old moor hen," said he, "that youhave slept away half your time in fatherland. then you will be treatedwith some consideration.""I deserved the first prize, and not the second," said thesnail. "I know so much, at least, that the hare only ran fromcowardice, and because he thought there was danger in delay. I, on theother hand, made running the business of my life, and have become acripple in the service. If any one had a first prize, it ought to havebeen myself. But I do not understand chattering and boasting. on thecontrary, I despise it." And the snail spat at them with contempt."I am able to affirm with word of oath, that each prize at least,those for which I voted was given with just and properconsideration," said the old boundary post in the wood, who was amember of the committee of judges. "I always act with due order,consideration, and calculation. Seven times have I already had thehonor to be present at the distribution of the prizes, and to vote.but to day is the first time I have been able to carry out my will.I always reckon the first prize by going through the alphabet from thebeginning, and the second by going through from the end. Be so kind asto give me your attention, and I will explain to you how I reckon fromthe beginning. The eighth letter from A is H, and there we have Hfor hare. therefore I awarded to the hare the first prize. Theeighth letter from the end of the alphabet is S, and therefore thesnail received the second prize. Next year, the letter I will have itsturn for the first prize, and the letter R for the second.""I should really have voted for myself," said the mule, "if Ihad not been one of the judges on the committee. Not only the rapiditywith which advance is made, but every other quality should have dueconsideration. as, for instance, how much weight a candidate is ableto draw. but I have not brought this quality forward now, nor thesagacity of the hare in his flight, nor the cunning with which hesuddenly springs aside and doubles, to lead people on a false track,thinking he has concealed himself. No. there is something else onwhich more stress should be laid, and which ought not be leftunnoticed. I mean that which mankind call the beautiful. It is onthe beautiful that I particularly fix my eyes. I observed thewell grown ears of the hare. it is a pleasure to me to observe howlong they are. It seemed as if I saw myself again in the days of mychildhood. and so I voted for the hare.""Buz," said the fly. "there, I'm not going to make a longspeech. but I wish to say something about hares. I have reallyovertaken more than one hare, when I have been seated on the engine infront of a railway train. I often do so. One can then so easilyjudge of one's own swiftness. Not long ago, I crushed the hind legs ofa young hare. He had been running a long time before the engine. hehad no idea that I was travelling there. At last he had to stop in hiscareer, and the engine ran over his hind legs, and crushed them. for Iset upon it. I left him lying there, and rode on farther. I callthat conquering him. but I do not want the prize.""It really seems to me," thought the wild rose, though she did notexpress her opinion aloud it is not in her nature to do so, thoughit would have been quite as well if she had. "it certainly seems to methat the sunbeam ought to have had the honor of receiving the firstprize. The sunbeam flies in a few minutes along the immeasurablepath from the sun to us. It arrives in such strength, that allnature awakes to loveliness and beauty. we roses blush and exhalefragrance in its presence. Our worshipful judges don't appear tohave noticed this at all. Were I the sunbeam, I would give each one ofthem a sun stroke. but that would only make them mad, and they are madenough already. I only hope," continued the rose, "that peace mayreign in the wood. It is glorious to bloom, to be fragrant, and tolive. to live in story and in song. The sunbeam will outlive us all.""What is the first prize?" asked the earthworm, who hadoverslept the time, and only now came up."It contains a free admission to a cabbage garden," replied themule. "I proposed that as one of the prizes. The hare most decidedlymust have it. and I, as an active and thoughtful member of thecommittee, took especial care that the prize should be one ofadvantage to him. so now he is provided for. The snail can now siton the fence, and lick up moss and sunshine. He has also beenappointed one of the first judges of swiftness in racing. It isworth much to know that one of the numbers is a man of talent in thething men call a 'committee.' I must say I expect much in thefuture. we have already made such a good beginning."