The Wasserburg town hall was built more than 600 years ago. A legend isconnected to the history of this building.At Wasserburg they were building a church and a town hall at the sametime. Thus they engaged many masons and construction workers, andinstructed the masters to not delay.Two diligent stonemasons, named Hans and Stephan, took charge of thework. The older one, Hans, supervised the construction of the church. theyounger one, Stephen, the town hall. Both were experienced in the art ofbuilding, having participated together in the construction of many amarvelous structure, also in southern Europe. They proceeded once againtogether with the plans, extending to one another the hand of truefriendship and swearing that they would help each other like goodbrothers, without hate and without envy.Because every good work should be rewarded, if it is to advance andsucceed, the man who finished his project first was promised a reward,provided that the work was worthy and without blemish.Do you want to know what kind of reward it was to be? A very unusualreward, neither of gold and silver, nor a medal of honor: It was themayor's beautiful daughter.Both stonemasons had cast their eyes on the girl at the same time, andthis was no secret to her father. Because both were skilled and uprightpeople, the mayor did not care if his daughter would take the one or theother as a bridegroom. Thus he promised her to the one who would firstcomplete his building. However, the bride to be was not consulted in thismatter. In her heart she had already chosen Stephen, the younger man.As luck would have it, Stephan completed his building first. The townhall was finished, but the church tower's steeple was still missing. Thecompetition was over. Stephan was to take home the mayor's wealthy andbeautiful daughter as his bride.This was a difficult test of friendship. Hans accepted his fate withoutenvy and complaint, devoting himself to his friend as before. But Stephancould not see it the same way. He did not feel right surrounded by goodfortune while his friend was unhappy. Thus he walked about sadly anddespondent, thinking to himself how he might be freed of his misery.One day he disappeared. In his room, instead of himself, there was astone statue of him and a written message, in which he extended his finalgreetings to his friend and to his bride to be. He revealed to them hisdecision to join a distant monastery.The legend does not tell us if Hans took home the abandoned bride.However, the friend appears to have lost all joy in his work, because thechurch tower's steeple is missing even today.The statue of loyal Stephen is still preserved in the town hall ofWasserburg.