An Anthology of Recent Poetry.Selected by L. D'O. WALTERS.With Twelve Plates in Colourand Twelve in Black and Whiteand many Decorations by HARRY CLARKE.The Story of the Hero Makoma From the Senna (OralTradition)Once upon a time, at the town of Senna on the banks of the Zambesi, wasborn a child. He was not like other children, for he was very tall andstrong. over his shoulder he carried a big sack, and in his hand aniron hammer. He could also speak like a grown man, but usually he wasvery silent.One day his mother said to him: 'My child, by what name shall we knowyou?'And he answered: 'Call all the head men of Senna here to the river'sbank.' And his mother called the head men of the town, and when theyhad come he led them down to a deep black pool in the river where allthe fierce crocodiles lived.'O great men!' he said, while they all listened, 'which of you willleap into the pool and overcome the crocodiles?' But no one would comeforward. So he turned and sprang into the water and disappeared.The people held their breath, for they thought: 'Surely the boy isbewitched and throws away his life, for the crocodiles will eat him!'Then suddenly the ground trembled, and the pool, heaving and swirling,became red with blood, and presently the boy rising to the surface swamon shore.But he was no longer just a boy! He was stronger than any man and verytall and handsome, so that the people shouted with gladness when theysaw him.'Now, O my people!' he cried, waving his hand, 'you know my name I amMakoma, "the Greater". for have I not slain the crocodiles into thepool where none would venture?'Then he said to his mother: 'Rest gently, my mother, for I go to make ahome for myself and become a hero.' Then, entering his hut he tookNu endo, his iron hammer, and throwing the sack over his shoulder, hewent away.Makoma crossed the Zambesi, and for many moons he wandered towards thenorth and west until he came to a very hilly country where, one day, hemet a huge giant making mountains.'Greeting,' shouted Makoma, 'you are you?''I am Chi eswa mapiri, who makes the mountains,' answered the giant.'and who are you?''I am Makoma, which signifies "greater,"' answered he.'Greater than who?' asked the giant.'Greater than you!' answered Makoma.The giant gave a roar and rushed upon him. Makoma said nothing, butswinging his great hammer, Nu endo, he struck the giant upon the head.He struck him so hard a blow that the giant shrank into quite a littleman, who fell upon his knees saying: 'You are indeed greater than I, OMakoma. take me with you to be your slave!' So Makoma picked him upand dropped him into the sack that he carried upon his back.He was greater than ever now, for all the giant's strength had goneinto him. and he resumed his journey, carrying his burden with aslittle difficulty as an eagle might carry a hare.Before long he came to a country broken up with huge stones and immenseclods of earth. Looking over one of the heaps he saw a giant wrappedin dust dragging out the very earth and hurling it in handfuls oneither side of him.'Who are you,' cried Makoma, 'that pulls up the earth in this way?''I am Chi dubula taka,' said he, 'and I am making the river beds.''Do you know who I am?' said Makoma. 'I am he that is called"greater"!''Greater than who?' thundered the giant.'Greater than you!' answered Makoma.With a shout, Chi dubula taka seized a great clod of earth and launchedit at Makoma. But the hero had his sack held over his left arm and thestones and earth fell harmlessly upon it, and, tightly gripping hisiron hammer, he rushed in and struck the giant to the ground.Chi dubula taka grovelled before him, all the while growing smaller andsmaller. and when he had become a convenient size Makoma picked him upand put him into the sack beside Chi  eswa mapiri.He went on his way even greater than before, as all the river maker'spower had become his. and at last he came to a forest of bao  babs andthorn trees. He was astonished at their size, for every one was fullgrown and larger than any trees he had ever seen, and close by he sawChi gwisa miti, the giant who was planting the forest.Chi gwisa miti was taller than either of his brothers, but Makoma wasnot afraid, and called out to him: 'Who are you, O Big One?''I,' said the giant, 'am Chi gwisa miti, and I am planting thesebao babs and thorns as food for my children the elephants.''Leave off!' shouted the hero, 'for I am Makoma, and would like toexchange a blow with thee!'The giant, plucking up a monster bao bab by the roots, struck heavilyat Makoma. but the hero sprang aside, and as the weapon sank deep intothe soft earth, whirled Nu endo the hammer round his head and felledthe giant with one blow.So terrible was the stroke that Chi gwisa  miti shrivelled up as theother giants had done. and when he had got back his breath he beggedMakoma to take him as his servant. 'For,' said he, 'it is honourableto serve a man so great as thou.'Makoma, after placing him in his sack, proceeded upon his journey, andtravelling for many days he at last reached a country so barren androcky that not a single living thing grew upon it everywhere reignedgrim desolation. And in the midst of this dead region he found a maneating fire.'What are you doing?' demanded Makoma.'I am eating fire,' answered the man, laughing. 'and my name isChi idea moto, for I am the flame spirit, and can waste and destroywhat I like.''You are wrong,' said Makoma. 'for I am Makoma, who is "greater" thanyou and you cannot destroy me!'The fire eater laughed again, and blew a flame at Makoma. But the herosprang behind a rock just in time, for the ground upon which he hadbeen standing was turned to molten glass, like an overbaked pot, by theheat of the flame spirit's breath.Then the hero flung his iron hammer at Chi  idea moto, and, strikinghim, it knocked him helpless. so Makoma placed him in the sack,Woro nowu, with the other great men that he had overcome.And now, truly, Makoma was a very great hero. for he had the strengthto make hills, the industry to lead rivers over dry wastes, foresightand wisdom in planting trees, and the power of producing fire when hewished.Wandering on he arrived one day at a great plain, well watered and fullof game. and in the very middle of it, close to a large river, was agrassy spot, very pleasant to make a home upon.Makoma was so delighted with the little meadow that he sat down under alarge tree and removing the sack from his shoulder, took out all thegiants and set them before him. 'My friends,' said he, 'I havetravelled far and am weary. Is not this such a place as would suit ahero for his home? Let us then go, to morrow, to bring in timber tomake a kraal.'So the next day Makoma and the giants set out to get poles to build thekraal, leaving only Chi eswa mapiri to look after the place and cooksome venison which they had killed. In the evening, when theyreturned, they found the giant helpless and tied to a tree by oneenormous hair!'How is it,' said Makoma, astonished, 'that we find you thus bound andhelpless?''O Chief,' answered Chi eswa mapiri, 'at mid  day a man came out of theriver. he was of immense statue, and his grey moustaches were of suchlength that I could not see where they ended! He demanded of me "Whois thy master?" And I answered: "Makoma, the greatest of heroes." Thenthe man seized me, and pulling a hair from his moustache, tied me tothis tree even as you see me.'Makoma was very wroth, but he said nothing, and drawing his finger nailacross the hair (which was as thick and strong as palm rope) cut it,and set free the mountain maker.The three following days exactly the same thing happened, only eachtime with a different one of the party. and on the fourth day Makomastayed in camp when the others went to cut poles, saying that he wouldsee for himself what sort of man this was that lived in the river andwhose moustaches were so long that they extended beyond men's sight.So when the giants had gone he swept and tidied the camp and put somevenison on the fire to roast. At midday, when the sun was rightoverhead, he heard a rumbling noise from the river, and looking up hesaw the head and shoulders of an enormous man emerging from it. Andbehold! right down the river bed and up the river bed, till they fadedinto the blue distance, stretched the giant's grey moustaches!'Who are you?' bellowed the giant, as soon as he was out of the water.'I am he that is called Makoma,' answered the hero. 'and, before I slaythee, tell me also what is thy name and what thou doest in the river?''My name is Chin debou Mau giri,' said the giant. 'My home is in theriver, for my moustache is the grey fever mist that hangs above thewater, and with which I bind all those that come unto me so that theydie.''You cannot bind me!' shouted Makoma, rushing upon him and strikingwith his hammer. But the river giant was so slimy that the blow slidharmlessly off his green chest, and as Makoma stumbled and tried toregain his balance, the giant swung one of his long hairs around himand tripped him up.For a moment Makoma was helpless, but remembering the power of theflame spirit which had entered into him, he breathed a fiery breathupon the giant's hair and cut himself free.As Chin debou Mau giri leaned forward to seize him the hero flung hissack Woronowu over the giant's slippery head, and gripping his ironhammer, struck him again. this time the blow alighted upon the dry sackand Chin  debou Mau giri fell dead.When the four giants returned at sunset with the poles, they rejoicedto find that Makoma had overcome the fever spirit, and they feasted onthe roast venison till far into the night. but in the morning, whenthey awoke, Makoma was already warming his hands to the fire, and hisface was gloomy.'In the darkness of the night, O my friends,' he said presently, 'thewhite spirits of my fathers came upon me and spoke, saying: "Get theehence, Makoma, for thou shalt have no rest until thou hast found andfought with Sakatirina, who had five heads, and is very great andstrong. so take leave of thy friends, for thou must go alone."'Then the giants were very sad, and bewailed the loss of their hero. butMakoma comforted them, and gave back to each the gifts he had takenfrom them. Then bidding them 'Farewell,' he went on his way.Makoma travelled far towards the west. over rough mountains andwater logged morasses, fording deep rivers, and tramping for daysacross dry deserts where most men would have died, until at length hearrived at a hut standing near some large peaks, and inside the hutwere two beautiful women.'Greeting!' said the hero. 'Is this the country of Sakatirina of fiveheads, whom I am seeking?''We greet you, O Great One!' answered the women. 'We are the wives ofSakatirina. your search is at an end, for there stands he whom youseek!' And they pointed to what Makoma had thought were two tallmountain peaks. 'Those are his legs,' they said. 'his body you cannotsee, for it is hidden in the clouds.'Makoma was astonished when he beheld how tall was the giant. but,nothing daunted, he went forward until he reached one of Sakatirina'slegs, which he struck heavily with Nu endo. Nothing happened, so hehit again and then again until, presently, he heard a tired, far awayvoice saying: 'Who is it that scratches my feet?'And Makoma shouted as loud as he could, answering: 'It is I, Makoma,who is called "Greater"!' And he listened, but there was no answer.Then Makoma collected all the dead brushwood and trees that he couldfind, and making an enormous pile round the giant's legs, set a lightto it.This time the giant spoke. his voice was very terrible, for it was therumble of thunder in the clouds. 'Who is it,' he said, 'making thatfire smoulder around my feet?''It is I, Makoma!' shouted the hero. 'And I have come from far away tosee thee, O Sakatirina, for the spirits of my fathers bade me go seekand fight with thee, lest I should grow fat, and weary of myself.'There was silence for a while, and then the giant spoke softly: 'It isgood, O Makoma!' he said. 'For I too have grown weary. There is noman so great as I, therefore I am all alone. Guard thyself!' andbending suddenly he seized the hero in his hands and dashed him uponthe ground. And lo! instead of death, Makoma had found life, for hesprang to his feet mightier in strength and stature than before, andrushing in he gripped the giant by the waist and wrestled with him.Hour by hour they fought, and mountains rolled beneath their feet likepebbles in a flood. now Makoma would break away, and summoning up hisstrength, strike the giant with Nu endo his iron hammer, and Sakatirinawould pluck up the mountains and hurl them upon the hero, but neitherone could slay the other. At last, upon the second day, they grappledso strongly that they could not break away. but their strength wasfailing, and, just as the sun was sinking, they fell together to theground, insensible.In the morning when they awoke, Mulimo the Great Spirit was standing bythem. and he said: 'O Makoma and Sakatirina! Ye are heroes so greatthat no man may come against you. Therefore ye will leave the worldand take up your home with me in the clouds.' And as he spake theheroes became invisible to the people of the Earth, and were no moreseen among them.