Long, long ago, the Galar Mor   the great disease, the plague   ravaged Scotland with terrible severity. It was a dreadful affliction, which, once infesting a country, spared none. Like a blue "Haesp," it hovered in the air, and lowered inevitably on its victim. The only prevention, where it broke out, was to knock down the houses on all the inmates, infected or not, and bury it with them in the ruins.Well, the Galar Mor broke out at the old castle (Ceann Drochaide, or Bridgend). A company of artillery was ordered from Blair Castle. They came up through Athole. The road cut to allow the cannons to pass is yet pointed out by the old people in Glenfernat. On they came over the Cairnwal, and their way is again visible from cuttings above the Coldrach   on over to Corriemulzie. Then they turned down Cornam muc, and the cannons were put into position at Dalvreckachy.The queen stood in the castle door, combing her hair. The first round brought the walls down about her. None of those within escaped, and the noble towers were levelled to the ground.Many long years   ay, ages after   when the red coats were stationed here, one of the soldiers was prevailed on, for a large sum of money, to explore the vaults. There was a hole open like a flue   the mouth is yet to be seen  into which, when a stone was thrown, it could be heard descending a flight of steps a long, long time.Down this hole he was lowered by a rope to the first steps, whence he proceeded, torch in hand, on his adventure. Pale and trembling, he was brought to the upper world again, and he vowed he had seen queer things, dreadful things, and that nothing should induce him to go back again. In one room or vault he had come on a ghastly company. They all sat round about as if living, with glittering ivory faces, dressed in strange garb, and silent, motionless, breathless, and dead.Years again afterwards, the Watsons   a wealthy family, then living in Castletown   began to clear out the ruins, and found numbers of old coins, broken vessels, iron doors, smashed grating, immense quantities of deers' horns, and bones of various animals. But a little old man, with a red cap, appeared to them and bade them desist if they valued their own welfare.Tradition reports that there are very many entire vaults below as yet. especially the stables, and a subterranean passage from them, by which the horses of the Castle could be watered at the Cluny without coming outside. From amongst the ruins, and around them, grew up a few trees to shelter the fallen greatness of Ceann Drochaide Castle.The narrator of this legend, an old worthy of Braemar, concluded:I feel honoured by the attention given to my wandering narrative. My memory is failing me now, and I seem to recall the old tales of the country dimly   as it were a glimpse through the mists of time. But no wonder. Like the old Castle, my best days are over, and my broken words are as the sounds issuing from the inner vaults, where many things unwot of may lie hid under the ruins of age.