A certain man had a shepherd, who served him faithfully and honestly formany years. This shepherd, when he was once upon a time following thesheep, heard a whistling on the hill, and, not knowing what it was, wentoff to see. When he got to the place, there was a conflagration, and inthe middle of it a serpent was squeaking. When he saw this, he waited tosee how the serpent would act, for all around it was burning, and the firehad almost come close to it.When the serpent saw him, it screamed, "Dear shepherd, do a good action.take me out of this fire."The shepherd took pity on its words, and reached it his crook, and itcrawled out upon it. When it had crawled out, it coiled itself round hisneck. When the shepherd saw this, he was frightened, and said, "Indeed youare a wretch! Is that the way you are going to thank me for rescuing you?So runs the proverb: 'Do good, and find evil.'"The serpent answered him, "Don't fear. I shall do you no harm. Only carryme to my father. my father is the emperor of the serpents."The shepherd begged pardon, and excused himself, "I can't carry you toyour father, because I have no one to leave in charge of my sheep."The serpent said to him, "Don't fear for your sheep. nothing will happento them. Only carry me to my father, and go quickly."Then there was no help for it, so he started with it over the hill. Whenhe came to a door, which was formed of nothing but serpents intertwined,and went up to it, the serpent which was coiled round his neck gave awhistle, and the serpents, which had twined themselves into the form of adoor, immediately untwined, and made way for them to enter.As the shepherd and the serpent entered the palace, the serpent called tothe shepherd, "Stop! Let me tell you something: when you come into myfather's palace, he will promise you what you desire, silver and gold. butdon't you accept anything, only ask him to give you such a tongue that youwill be able to understand all animals. He will not give you this readily,but at last grant it you he will."The shepherd went with it into its father's palace, and its father, onseeing it, shed tears, and asked it, "Hey, my son, where have you beentill now?"It replied, and told him everything in order: what had taken place, andhow it had taken place, and how the shepherd had rescued it.Then the emperor of the serpents turned to the shepherd, and said to him,"Come, my son, what do you wish me to give you in recompense for rescuingmy child?"The shepherd replied to him, "Nothing else, only give me such a tonguethat I can understand all animals."The emperor of the serpents said to him, "That is not a proper gift foryou, my son, because, if I give you anything of the kind, you will betrayyourself in somebody's presence by boasting of it, and then you will dieimmediately. Ask something else."The shepherd replied to him, "I wish for nothing else. If you will give itme, give it. if not, farewell!"He turned to go. but the emperor of the serpents cried out, "Stay! Return!If you ask this, come, that I may give it you. Open your mouth."The shepherd opened his mouth, and the emperor of the serpents spat intoit, and told him to spit also into his mouth. And thus they spat thriceinto each other's mouths.When this was done, the emperor of the serpents said to the shepherd, "Nowyou have the tongue which you desired. Go, and farewell! But it is notpermitted you to tell anybody, because, if you do, you will die. I amtelling you the truth."The shepherd then departed. As he went over the hill, he understood theconversation of the birds, and, so to speak, of everything in the world.When he came to his sheep, he found them correct in number, and sat downto rest.But scarcely had he lain down, when two crows flew up, perched on a treehard by him, and began to converse in their language, "If that shepherdknew that just where that black lamb lies a vault full of silver and goldis buried in the ground, he would take its contents."When he heard this, he went and told his master, and he brought a cart,and they broke open the door of the vault, and took out its valuablecontents.His master was a righteous man, and said to him, "Well, my son, this isall yours. the Lord has given it you. Go, provide a house, get married,and live comfortably."The shepherd took the property, went away, provided a house, got married,and lived very comfortably. This shepherd, after a little time, became sorich and prosperous that there was nobody richer than he in his own or theneighboring villages. He had shepherds, cowherds, swineherds, grooms, andeverything on a handsome scale.Once upon a time this shepherd ordered his wife on New Year's Eve toprovide wine, brandy, and everything requisite, and to go the next morningto his cattle, to take the provisions to the herdsmen, that they, too,might enjoy themselves. His wife obeyed him, and did as her husbandordered her.The next day they got up, got ready, and went. When they arrived where thecattle were, the master said to his shepherds, "Lads, assemble together,and sit down to eat and drink your fill, and I will watch the cattletonight."This was done. they assembled together, and he went out to sleep by thecattle. In the course of the night, after some time, the wolves began tohowl and speak in their language, and the dogs to bark and speak intheirs.The wolves said, "Can we capture any young cattle?"The dogs answered in their language, "Come in, that we, too, may eat ourfill of flesh."But among the dogs there was one old dog, who had only two teeth left.This dog spoke and answered the wolves, "In faith, as long as these twoteeth of mine last, you shan't come near to do harm to my master."In the morning, when it dawned, the master called the herdsmen, and toldthem to kill all the dogs except that old one.His servants began to implore him, "Don't, master! Why? It's a sin."But he said to them, "Do just as I ordered you, and not otherwise."Then he and his wife mounted their horses and went off. His wife rode amare, and he a horse. As they went, the master's horse outstripped thewife's mare, and began to say to her in their language, "Go quicker. Whydo you hang back?"The mare's reply in defense of her lagging pace was so amusing that theman laughed out loud, turned his head, and looked behind him with a smile.His wife observed him smiling, whipped her mare to catch him up, and thenasked him to tell her why he smiled.He said to her, "Well, suppose I did? Something came into my head."This answer did not satisfy her, but she began to worry him to tell herwhy he smiled. He said this and that to her to get out of it, but the morehe said to get out of it, the more did she worry him. At length he said toher that, if he told her, he would die immediately. But she had no dreadof her husband's dying, and went on worrying him: "There is noalternative, but tell me you must."When they got home, they dismounted from their horses, and as soon as theyhad done so, her husband ordered a grave to be dug for him. It was dug,and he lay down in it, and said to his wife, "Did you not press me to tellyou why I smiled? Come now, that I may tell you. but I shall dieimmediately."On saying this, he gave one more look round him, and observed that the olddog had come from the cattle. Seeing this, he told his wife to give him apiece of bread. She gave it him, but the dog would not even look at it,but shed tears and wept. But the cock, seeing it, ran up and began to peckit.The dog was angry, and said, "As if you'd die hungry! Don't you see thatour master is going to die?""What a fool he is! Let him die! Whose fault is it? I have a hundredwives. When I find a grain of millet, I call them all to me, and finallyeat it myself. If one of them gets cross at this, I give her one or twopecks, and she lowers her tail. But this man isn't equal to keeping one inorder."When the man heard the cock say this, he jumped up at once out of thegrave, seized a stick, chased his wife over hill and dale, and at lastsettled her completely, so that it never entered her head any more to askhim why he smiled.