Once upon a time there was a goldsmith who lived in a certain villagewhere the people were as bad and greedy, and covetous, as they couldpossibly be. however, in spite of his surroundings, he was fat andprosperous. He had only one friend whom he liked, and that was acowherd, who looked after cattle for one of the farmers in the village.Every evening the goldsmith would walk across to the cowherd's houseand say: 'Come, let's go out for a walk!'Now the cowherd didn't like walking in the evening, because, he said,he had been out grazing the cattle all day, and was glad to sit downwhen night came. but the goldsmith always worried him so that the poorman had to go against his will. This at last so annoyed him that hetried to think how he could pick a quarrel with the goldsmith, so thathe should not beg him to walk with him any more. He asked anothercowherd for advice, and he said the best thing he could do was to goacross and kill the goldsmith's wife, for then the goldsmith would besure to regard him as an enemy. so, being a foolish person, and therebeing no laws in that country by which a man would be certainlypunished for such a crime, the cowherd one evening took a big stick andwent across to the goldsmith's house when only Mrs. Goldsmith was athome, and banged her on the head so hard that she died then and there.When the goldsmith came back and found his wife dead he said nothing,but just took her outside into the dark lane and propped her up againstthe wall of his house, and then went into the courtyard and waited.Presently a rich stranger came along the lane, and seeing someonethere, as he supposed, he said:'Good evening, friend! a fine night to  night!' But the goldsmith'swife said nothing. The man then repeated his words louder. but stillthere was no reply. A third time he shouted:'Good evening, friend! are you deaf?' but the figure never replied.Then the stranger, being angry at what he thought very rude behaviour,picked up a big stone and threw it at Mrs. Goldsmith, crying:'Let that teach you manners!'Instantly poor Mrs. Goldsmith tumbled over. and the stranger,horrified at seeing what he had done, was immediately seized by thegoldsmith, who ran out screaming:'Wretch! you have killed my wife! Oh, miserable one. we will havejustice done to thee!'With many protestations and reproaches they wrangled together, thestranger entreating the goldsmith to say nothing and he would pay himhandsomely to atone for the sad accident. At last the goldsmithquieted down, and agreed to accept one thousand gold pieces from thestranger, who immediately helped him to bury his poor wife, and thenrushed off to the guest house, packed up his things and was off bydaylight, lest the goldsmith should repent and accuse him as themurderer of his wife. Now it very soon appeared that the goldsmith hada lot of extra money, so that people began to ask questions, andfinally demanded of him the reason for his sudden wealth.'Oh,' said he, 'my wife died, and I sold her.''You sold your dead wife?' cried the people.'Yes,' said the goldsmith.'For how much?''A thousand gold pieces,' replied the goldsmith.Instantly the villagers went away and each caught hold of his own wifeand throttled her, and the next day they all went off to sell theirdead wives. Many a weary mile did they tramp, but got nothing but hardwords or laughter, or directions to the nearest cemetery, from peopleto whom they offered dead wives for sale. At last they perceived thatthey had been cheated somehow by that goldsmith. So off they rushedhome, seized the unhappy man, and, without listening to his cries andentreaties, hurried him down to the river bank and flunghim plop! into the deepest, weediest, and nastiest place they couldfind.'That will teach him to play tricks on us,' said they. 'For as hecan't swim he'll drown, and we sha'n't have any more trouble with him!'Now the goldsmith really could not swim, and as soon as he was throwninto the deep river he sank below the surface. so his enemies went awaybelieving that they had seen the last of him. But, in reality, he wascarried down, half drowned, below the next bend in the river, where hefortunately came across a 'snag' floating in the water (a snag is, youknow, a part of a tree or bush which floats very nearly under thesurface of the water). and he held on to this snag, and by great goodluck eventually came ashore some two or three miles down the river. Atthe place where he landed he came across a fine fat cow buffalo, andimmediately he jumped on her back and rode home. When the villagepeople saw him, they ran out in surprise, and said:'Where on earth do you come from, and where did you get that buffalo?''Ah!' said the goldsmith, 'you little know what delightful adventures Ihave had! Why, down in that place in the river where you threw me in Ifound meadows, and trees, and fine pastures, and buffaloes, and allkinds of cattle. In fact, I could hardly tear myself away. but Ithought that I must really let you all know about it.''Oh, oh!' thought the greedy village people. 'if there are buffaloes tobe had for the taking we'll go after some too.' Encouraged by thegoldsmith they nearly all ran off the very next morning to the river.and, in order that they might get down quickly to the beautiful placethe goldsmith told them of, they tied great stones on to their feet andtheir necks, and one after another they jumped into the water as fastas the could, and were drowned. And whenever any one of them waved hishands about and struggled the goldsmith would cry out:'Look! he's beckoning the rest of you to come. he's got a finebuffalo!' And others who were doubtful would jump in, until not one wasleft. Then the cunning goldsmith went back and took all the villagefor himself, and became very rich indeed. But do you think he washappy? Not a bit. Lies never made a man happy yet. Truly, he got thebetter of a set of wicked and greedy people, but only by being wickedand greedy himself. and, as it turned out, when he got so rich he gotvery fat. and at last was so fat that he couldn't move, and one day hegot the apoplexy and died, and no one in the world cared the least bit.