A mouse living in the town one day met a mouse which lived in the field."Where do you come from?" asked the latter when she saw the town mouse."I come from yonder town," replied the first mouse."How is life going there with you?""Very well, indeed. I am living in the lap of luxury. Whatever I wantof sweets or any other good things is to be found in abundance in mymaster's house. But how are you living?""I have nothing to complain of. You just come and see my stores. I havegrain and nuts, and all the fruits of the tree and field in mystorehouse."The town mouse did not quite believe the story of her new friend, and,driven by curiosity, went with her to the latter's house. How great washer surprise when she found that the field mouse had spoken the truth.her garner was full of nuts and grain and other stores, and her mouthwatered when she saw all the riches which were stored up there.Then she turned to the field mouse and said, "Oh, yes, you have here anice snug place and something to live upon, but you should come to myhouse and see what I have there. Your stock is as nothing compared withthe riches which are mine."The field mouse, who was rather simple by nature and trusted her newfriend, went with her into the town to see what better things the othercould have. She had never been into the town and did not know what herfriend could mean when she boasted of her greater riches. So they wenttogether, and the town mouse took her friend to her master's house. Hewas a grocer, and there were boxes and sacks full of every good thing theheart of a mouse could desire. When she saw all these riches, the fieldmouse said she could never have believed it, had she not seen it with herown eyes.While they were talking together, who should come in but the cat. Assoon as the town mouse saw the cat, she slipped quietly behind a box andhid herself. Her friend, who had never yet seen a cat, turned to her andasked her who that gentleman was who had come in so quietly."Do you not know who he is? Why, he is our priest, and he has come tosee me. You must go and pay your respects to him and kiss his hand. Seewhat a beautiful glossy coat he has on, and how his eyes sparkle, and howdemurely he keeps his hands in the sleeves of his coat."Not suspecting anything, the field mouse did as she was told and went upto the cat. He gave her at once his blessing, and the mouse had no needof another after that. The cat gave her extreme unction there and then.That was just what the town mouse had intended. When she saw how wellstored the home of the field mouse was, she made up her mind to trap herand to kill her, so that she might take possession of all that the fieldmouse had gathered up. She had learned the ways of the townspeople andhad acted accordingly.