Long, long ago, far, far away on the other side of the world, some youngmen left the camp where they lived to get some food for their wives andchildren. The sun was hot, but they liked heat, and as they went theyran races and tried who could hurl his spear the farthest, or wascleverest in throwing a strange weapon called a boomerang, which alwaysreturns to the thrower. They did not get on very fast at this rate, butpresently they reached a flat place that in time of flood was full ofwater, but was now, in the height of summer, only a set of pools, eachsurrounded with a fringe of plants, with bulrushes standing in theinside of all. In that country the people are fond of the roots ofbulrushes, which they think as good as onions, and one of the young mensaid that they had better collect some of the roots and carry them backto the camp. It did not take them long to weave the tops of the willowsinto a basket, and they were just going to wade into the water and pullup the bulrush roots when a youth suddenly called out: 'After all, whyshould we waste our time in doing work that is only fit for women andchildren? Let them come and get the roots for themselves. but we willfish for eels and anything else we can get.'This delighted the rest of the party, and they all began to arrangetheir fishing lines, made from the bark of the yellow mimosa, and tosearch for bait for their hooks. Most of them used worms, but one, whohad put a piece of raw meat for dinner into his skin wallet, cut off alittle bit and baited his line with it, unseen by his companions.For a long time they cast patiently, without receiving a single bite.the sun had grown low in the sky, and it seemed as if they would have togo home empty handed, not even with a basket of roots to show. whenthe youth, who had baited his hook with raw meat, suddenly saw his linedisappear under the water. Something, a very heavy fish he supposed,was pulling so hard that he could hardly keep his feet, and for a fewminutes it seemed either as if he must let go or be dragged into thepool. He cried to his friends to help him, and at last, trembling withfright at what they were going to see, they managed between them to landon the bank a creature that was neither a calf nor a seal, but somethingof both, with a long, broad tail. They looked at each other with horror,cold shivers running down their spines. for though they had never beheldit, there was not a man amongst them who did not know what it was thecub of the awful Bunyip!All of a sudden the silence was broken by a low wail, answered byanother from the other side of the pool, as the mother rose up from herden and came towards them, rage flashing from her horrible yellow eyes.'Let it go! let it go!' whispered the young men to each other. but thecaptor declared that he had caught it, and was going to keep it. 'He hadpromised his sweetheart,' he said, 'that he would bring back enough meatfor her father's house to feast on for three days, and though they couldnot eat the little Bunyip, her brothers and sisters should have it toplay with.' So, flinging his spear at the mother to keep her back, hethrew the little Bunyip on to his shoulders, and set out for the camp,never heeding the poor mother's cries of distress.By this time it was getting near sunset, and the plain was in shadow,though the tops of the mountains were still quite bright. The youths hadall ceased to be afraid, when they were startled by a low rushing soundbehind them, and, looking round, saw that the pool was slowly rising,and the spot where they had landed the Bunyip was quite covered. 'Whatcould it be?' they asked one of another. 'there was not a cloud in thesky, yet the water had risen higher already than they had ever known itdo before.' For an instant they stood watching as if they were frozen,then they turned and ran with all their might, the man with the Bunyiprunning faster than all. When he reached a high peak over looking allthe plain he stopped to take breath, and turned to see if he was safeyet. Safe! why only the tops of the trees remained above that sea ofwater, and these were fast disappearing. They must run fast indeed ifthey were to escape. So on they flew, scarcely feeling the ground asthey went, till they flung themselves on the ground before the holesscooped out of the earth where they had all been born. The old men weresitting in front, the children were playing, and the women chatteringtogether, when the little Bunyip fell into their midst, and there wasscarcely a child among them who did not know that something terriblewas upon them. 'The water! the water!' gasped one of the young men. andthere it was, slowly but steadily mounting the ridge itself. Parents andchildren clung together, as if by that means they could drive backthe advancing flood. and the youth who had caused all this terriblecatastrophe, seized his sweetheart, and cried: 'I will climb with youto the top of that tree, and there no waters can reach us.' But, as hespoke, something cold touched him, and quickly he glanced down at hisfeet. Then with a shudder he saw that they were feet no longer, butbird's claws. He looked at the girl he was clasping, and beheld a greatblack bird standing at his side. he turned to his friends, but a flockof great awkward flapping creatures stood in their place He put up hishands to cover his face, but they were no more hands, only the ends ofwings. and when he tried to speak, a noise such as he had never heardbefore seemed to come from his throat, which had suddenly become narrowand slender. Already the water had risen to his waist, and he foundhimself sitting easily upon it, while its surface reflected back theimage of a black swan, one of many.Never again did the swans become men. but they are still different fromother swans, for in the night time those who listen can hear them talkin a language that is certainly not swan's language. and there are evensounds of laughing and talking, unlike any noise made by the swans whomwe know.The little Bunyip was carried home by its mother, and after that thewaters sank back to their own channels. The side of the pool whereshe lives is always shunned by everyone, as nobody knows when she maysuddenly put out her head and draw him into her mighty jaws. But peoplesay that underneath the black waters of the pool she has a house filledwith beautiful things, such as mortals who dwell on the earth have noidea of. Though how they know I cannot tell you, as nobody has ever seenit.