It was winter time. the air was cold, the wind was sharp, butwithin the closed doors it was warm and comfortable, and within theclosed door lay the flower. it lay in the bulb under thesnow covered earth.One day rain fell. The drops penetrated through the snowy coveringdown into the earth, and touched the flower bulb, and talked of thebright world above. Soon the Sunbeam pierced its way through thesnow to the root, and within the root there was a stirring."Come in," said the flower."I cannot," said the Sunbeam. "I am not strong enough to unlockthe door! When the summer comes I shall be strong!""When will it be summer?" asked the Flower, and she repeatedthis question each time a new sunbeam made its way down to her. Butthe summer was yet far distant. The snow still lay upon the ground,and there was a coat of ice on the water every night."What a long time it takes! what a long time it takes!" said theFlower. "I feel a stirring and striving within me. I must stretchmyself, I must unlock the door, I must get out, and must nod a goodmorning to the summer, and what a happy time that will be!"And the Flower stirred and stretched itself within the thin rindwhich the water had softened from without, and the snow and theearth had warmed, and the Sunbeam had knocked at. and it shot forthunder the snow with a greenish white blossom on a green stalk, withnarrow thick leaves, which seemed to want to protect it. The snowwas cold, but was pierced by the Sunbeam, therefore it was easy to getthrough it, and now the Sunbeam came with greater strength thanbefore."Welcome, welcome!" sang and sounded every ray, and the Flowerlifted itself up over the snow into the brighter world. The Sunbeamscaressed and kissed it, so that it opened altogether, white as snow,and ornamented with green stripes. It bent its head in joy andhumility."Beautiful Flower!" said the Sunbeams, "how graceful anddelicate you are! You are the first, you are the only one! You are ourlove! You are the bell that rings out for summer, beautiful summer,over country and town. All the snow will melt. the cold winds willbe driven away. we shall rule. all will become green, and then youwill have companions, syringas, laburnums, and roses. but you arethe first, so graceful, so delicate!"That was a great pleasure. It seemed as if the air were singingand sounding, as if rays of light were piercing through the leaves andthe stalks of the Flower. There it stood, so delicate and so easilybroken, and yet so strong in its young beauty. it stood there in itswhite dress with the green stripes, and made a summer. But there was along time yet to the summer time. Clouds hid the sun, and bleakwinds were blowing."You have come too early," said Wind and Weather. "We have stillthe power, and you shall feel it, and give it up to us. You shouldhave stayed quietly at home and not have run out to make a displayof yourself. Your time is not come yet!"It was a cutting cold! The days which now come brought not asingle sunbeam. It was weather that might break such a little Flowerin two with cold. But the Flower had more strength than she herselfknew of. She was strong in joy and in faith in the summer, which wouldbe sure to come, which had been announced by her deep longing andconfirmed by the warm sunlight. and so she remained standing inconfidence in the snow in her white garment, bending her head evenwhile the snow flakes fell thick and heavy, and the icy winds sweptover her."You'll break!" they said, "and fade, and fade! What did youwant out here? Why did you let yourself be tempted? The Sunbeam onlymade game of you. Now you have what you deserve, you summer gauk.""Summer gauk!" she repeated in the cold morning hour."O summer gauk!" cried some children rejoicingly. "yonder standsone how beautiful, how beautiful! The first one, the only one!"These words did the Flower so much good, they seemed to her likewarm sunbeams. In her joy the Flower did not even feel when it wasbroken off. It lay in a child's hand, and was kissed by a child'smouth, and carried into a warm room, and looked on by gentle eyes, andput into water. How strengthening, how invigorating! The Flowerthought she had suddenly come upon the summer.The daughter of the house, a beautiful little girl, was confirmed,and she had a friend who was confirmed, too. He was studying for anexamination for an appointment. "He shall be my summer gauk," shesaid. and she took the delicate Flower and laid it in a piece ofscented paper, on which verses were written, beginning with summergauk and ending with summer gauk. "My friend, be a winter gauk." Shehad twitted him with the summer. Yes, all this was in the verses,and the paper was folded up like a letter, and the Flower was foldedin the letter, too. It was dark around her, dark as in those days whenshe lay hidden in the bulb. The Flower went forth on her journey,and lay in the post bag, and was pressed and crushed, which was not atall pleasant. but that soon came to an end.The journey was over. the letter was opened, and read by thedear friend. How pleased he was! He kissed the letter, and it waslaid, with its enclosure of verses, in a box, in which there were manybeautiful verses, but all of them without flowers. she was thefirst, the only one, as the Sunbeams had called her. and it was apleasant thing to think of that.She had time enough, moreover, to think about it. she thought ofit while the summer passed away, and the long winter went by, andthe summer came again, before she appeared once more. But now theyoung man was not pleased at all. He took hold of the letter veryroughly, and threw the verses away, so that the Flower fell on theground. Flat and faded she certainly was, but why should she be thrownon the ground? Still, it was better to be here than in the fire, wherethe verses and the paper were being burnt to ashes. What had happened?What happens so often: the Flower had made a gauk of him, that wasa jest. the girl had made a fool of him, that was no jest, she had,during the summer, chosen another friend.Next morning the sun shone in upon the little flattenedSnowdrop, that looked as if it had been painted upon the floor. Theservant girl, who was sweeping out the room, picked it up, and laid itin one of the books which were upon the table, in the belief that itmust have fallen out while the room was being arranged. Again theflower lay among verses printed verses and they are better thanwritten ones at least, more money has been spent upon them.And after this years went by. The book stood upon thebook shelf, and then it was taken up and somebody read out of it. Itwas a good book. verses and songs by the old Danish poet, AmbrosiusStub, which are well worth reading. The man who was now reading thebook turned over a page."Why, there's a flower!" he said. "a snowdrop, a summer gauk, apoet gauk! That flower must have been put in there with a meaning!Poor Ambrosius Stub! he was a summer fool too, a poet fool. he cametoo early, before his time, and therefore he had to taste the sharpwinds, and wander about as a guest from one noble landed proprietor toanother, like a flower in a glass of water, a flower in rhymed verses!Summer fool, winter fool, fun and folly but the first, the only,the fresh young Danish poet of those days. Yes, thou shalt remain as atoken in the book, thou little snowdrop: thou hast been put there witha meaning."And so the Snowdrop was put back into the book, and felt equallyhonored and pleased to know that it was a token in the glorious bookof songs, and that he who was the first to sing and to write hadbeen also a snowdrop, had been a summer gauk, and had been looked uponin the winter time as a fool. The Flower understood this, in herway, as we interpret everything in our way.That is the story of the Snowdrop.