There was a woman in Connemara, the wife of a fisherman. as he hadalways good luck, she had plenty of fish at all times stored away in thehouse ready for market. But, to her great annoyance, she found that agreat cat used to come in at night and devour all the best and finestfish. So she kept a big stick by her, and determined to watch.One day, as she and a woman were spinning together, the house suddenlybecame quite dark. and the door was burst open as if by the blast of thetempest, when in walked a huge black cat, who went straight up to thefire, then turned round and growled at them."Why, surely this is the devil," said a young girl who was by, sortingfish."I'll teach you to call me names," said the cat. and, jumping at her, hescratched her arm till the blood came. "There, now," he said, "you willbe more civil another time when a gentleman comes to see you." And, withthat, he walked over to the door, and shut it close to prevent any ofthem going out, for the poor young girl, while crying loudly from frightand pain, had made a desperate rush to get away.Just then a man was going by, and, hearing the cries, he pushed open thedoor, and tried to get in. but the cat stood on the threshold and wouldlet no one pass. On this the man attacked him with a stick, and gave hima sound blow. the cat, however, was more than a match in the fight, forit flew at him, and tore his face and hands so badly that the man atlast took to his heels, and ran away as fast as he could."Now, it's time for my dinner," said the cat, going up to examine thefish that was laid out on the tables. "I hope the fish is good to day.Now, don't disturb me, or make a fuss. I can help myself." With that, hejumped up, and began to devour all the best fish, while he growled atthe woman."Away out of this, you wicked beast!" she cried, giving it a blow withthe tongs that would have broken its back, only it was a devil. "out ofthis. no fish shall you have to day!"But the cat only grinned at her, and went on tearing and despoiling anddevouring the fish, evidently not a bit the worse for the blows. Onthis both the women attacked it with sticks, and struck hard blowsenough to kill it, on which the cat glared at them and spit fire. then,making a leap, it tore their heads and arms till the blood came, and thefrightened women rushed shrieking from the house.But presently the mistress of the house returned, carrying with her abottle of holy water. and, looking in, she saw the cat still devouringthe fish, and not minding. So she crept over quietly, and threw holywater on it without a word. No sooner was this done than a dense, blacksmoke filled the place, through which nothing was seen but the two redeyes of the cat burning like coals of fire. Then the smoke graduallycleared away, and she saw the body of the creature burning slowly, tillit became shrivelled and black like a cinder, and finally disappeared.And from that time the fish remained untouched and safe from harm, forthe power of the Evil One was broken, and the Demon Cat was seen nomore.LADY WILDE.