Once upon a time a king was out hunting when he came upon a hollow tree that his dogs would not pass by. They barked and jumped about and could not be brought to move on. Taking a closer look, the king discovered a beautiful maiden sitting in the hollow trunk. She was entirely naked and looked at him with terror. He threw his coat over her, and whistled to his servants. They came immediately, and he showed them the maiden, saying, "See what a beautiful animal I have captured!" Then he whistled again, and his coach came. He placed the maiden inside, rode home with her to his castle, and married her.The old queen, the king's mother, still lived in the castle, and she did not like the young queen and did everything to make her life miserable. With time the king had to go off to war, and while he was away his wife gave birth to a son. The old queen cooked up a brew and gave it to the newborn, which caused hair to grow all over his body. Then the wicked old woman wrote to the king, "Your wife has given birth to a hairy animal. We do not know whether it is a dog or a cat."This news greatly angered the king, and he commanded that the newborn be tied to his wife's back, and that they both be driven away.Thus the young queen and her hairy son were put out of the castle, and she returned to the hollow tree where the king had first seen her. She lived there as before. However, life in the woods was so good for the hairy boy that he grew a foot every day, and soon there was not enough room in the hollow tree. One day he went out and pulled up a bundle of large fir trees. He broke them over his knee and built a comfortable cabin for himself and his mother. Soon afterward he said to his mother, "Now tell me once and for all, who is my father?""Alas," answered the mother, "your father is the king, but you will never see him as long as you live.""But I want to see him right now!" said the hairy boy, and he ripped a fir tree out of the ground, roots and all. He set forth carrying it, and did not rest until he had found the royal castle. The king had just sat down to eat and had a great quantity of expensive food before him. The hairy boy acted as if he were right at home, walked up to the king and said to him, "I am here too. I am your son, and I want to eat at your table with you." The king was terrified and wanted to stop him, but the hairy boy continued without hindrance, reaching his hairy hands into the king's plates and dishes. No one dared say a thing, for the king's people were all terrified and stood by helplessly. After the hairy boy had eaten every last morsel from the table, he said to the king, "I am going now, but I will be back tomorrow.""Wait," thought the king, "I'll see that you do not come back." He quickly summoned five hundred soldiers, and placed them immediately before the castle with the command to shoot at the hairy boy on sight. The next day when the hairy boy returned carrying his fir tree the soldiers all fired at him. But the hairy boy calmly plucked the bullets from his body and threw them, fifty at a time, back at the soldiers, until he had killed them all.He entered the castle just as the king was again sitting down to eat. The hairy boy said to him, "But father, what are you up to? Your soldiers are all lying dead outside, struck down by their own bullets. I am your son, and I want to eat at your table with you." And once again he reached his hairy hands into the king's plates and dishes, and did not stop eating until every last morsel had disappeared from the table. "I am going now," he said at last, "but I will be back tomorrow, and I am bringing my mother along.""Stop!" thought the king, "That you will not do!" He immediately called up ten hundred soldiers and positioned them before the castle, half in the courtyard and half surrounding the castle, commanding them by their very lives to not let the hairy boy inside.The next day the hairy boy returned, leading his mother by her hand. When soldiers shot at him, he placed himself in front of his mother. He again plucked the bullets from his body and threw them back, one hundred at a time, until all the soldiers lay dead on the ground. Then he walked into the castle and approached his father, saying, "But father, what are you up to again? Your soldiers are all dead as doornails, struck down by their own bullets! Go and see for yourself!" Then he took him by the hand and threw him into the courtyard below. He took him by the hand a second time and threw him back inside through the window. He threw him to the floor a third time, and the king was dead.The old queen hurried in, and the hairy boy threatened to kill her if she did not treat him well, and she had to promise to rid his body of the ugly hair. Once again she cooked up a brew, and it removed the hair from his body and hands. From this hour on he had no more power than ordinary people. But the kingdom was now his, and he ruled with his mother in peace and splendor.