In Rold Forest, near Hobro, there lived a married couple who had only one child, a boy of eight or nine years old, but he was no bigger than a child of three. He had a large head and thick speech, and was as ugly as sin, but neither the man nor the wife could see this, for of course everyone thinks well of their own children.One harvest the man had a litter of little pigs, and as these were so cheap that year that it would not pay to sell them, they roasted them and ate them themselves. They wrapped them up in a piece of canvas, plastered this over with clay, and laid them in the glowing ashes, and when they were sufficiently roasted, they could flay canvas, clay and hair off them, and then take out the inside. This then made a beautiful roast, which they ate with great satisfaction.One day they had laid one of the little pigs in the ashes to be cooked in this way, and had gone out to the harvest, leaving it to be ready when they came home again.The child was left poking about at home, and in raking among the ashes he found the pig. At first he was greatly puzzled as to what this could be, but finally made up his mind that it was a sausage.At this he was greatly delighted, leapt and sprang round the room, crying out, "Sausage, have you ears? Sausage, have you eyes? Sausage, have you a tail? I have lived so long that I have seen Rold Forest cut down twice and grow up thrice, but never have I seen such a sausage!"He kept on shouting this and leaping about, till finally he crawled up on a rafter, and was sitting there repeating the same words, when the man and his wife came home.The woman heard him and said, "Now I know why the child is never growing any bigger. He is a changeling, but I'll soon get rid of him."She entered the house, and called to the little fellow to come down, as she wanted to talk to him. He did so, and she took him and gave him a good thrashing, and threw him out of doors. There he lay and howled at the top of his voice.After a while there came an ugly little woman with a child on her arm, which she threw to the woman, saying, "There you have your youngster. I have been better to him than you have been to mine."When she had said this she disappeared with the changeling, but the woman's own child was quite ruined by the troll folk, and died soon after.