the sandy margin of a voe (a deep inlet), saw a number of mermen and mermaids dancing by moonlight, and several sealskins strewed beside them on the ground. Athis approach they immediately fled to secure their garbs, and, taking uponthemselves the form of seals, plunged immediately into the sea. But asthe Shetlander perceived that one skin lay close to his feet, he snatchedit up, bore it swiftly away, and placed it in concealment. On returningto the shore he met the fairest damsel that was ever gazed upon by mortaleyes, lamenting the robbery, by which she had become an exile from hersubmarine friends, and a tenant of the upper world. Vainly she imploredthe restitution of her property. The man had drunk deeply of love, and wasinexorable. but he offered her protection beneath his roof as hisbetrothed spouse. The merlady, perceiving that she must become aninhabitant of the earth, found that she could not do better than accept ofthe offer. This strange attachment subsisted for many years, and thecouple had several children. The Shetlander's love for his merwife wasunbounded, but his affection was coldly returned. The lady would oftensteal alone to the desert strand, and, on a signal being given, a largeseal would make his appearance, with whom she would hold, in an unknowntongue, an anxious conference. Years had thus glided away, when ithappened that one of the children, in the course of his play, foundconcealed beneath a stack of corn a seal's skin. and, delighted with theprize, he ran with it to his mother. Her eyes glistened with rapture  she gazed upon it as her own   as the means by which she could pass throughthe ocean that led to her native home. She burst forth into an ecstasy ofjoy, which was only moderated when she beheld her children, whom she wasnow about to leave. and, after hastily embracing them, she fled with allspeed towards the seaside. The husband immediately returned, learned thediscovery that had taken place, ran to overtake his wife, but only arrivedin time to see her transformation of shape completed   to see her, in theform of a seal, bound from the ledge of a rock into the sea. The largeanimal of the same kind with whom she had held a secret converse soonappeared, and evidently congratulated her, in the most tender manner, onher escape. But before she dived to unknown depths, she cast a partingglance at the wretched Shetlander, whose despairing looks excited in herbreast a few transient feelings of commiseration. "Farewell!" said sheto him "and may all good attend you. I loved you very well when I residedupon earth, but I always loved my first husband much better."