A long time ago there lived a young prince whose favourite playfellowwas the son of the gardener who lived in the grounds of the palace. Theking would have preferred his choosing a friend from the pages who werebrought up at court. but the prince would have nothing to say to them,and as he was a spoilt child, and allowed his way in all things, and thegardener's boy was quiet and well behaved, he was suffered to be in thepalace, morning, noon, and night.The game the children loved the best was a match at archery, for theking had given them two bows exactly alike, and they would spend wholedays in trying to see which could shoot the highest. This is always verydangerous, and it was a great wonder they did not put their eyes out.but somehow or other they managed to escape.One morning, when the prince had done his lessons, he ran out to callhis friend, and they both hurried off to the lawn which was their usualplayground. They took their bows out of the little hut where their toyswere kept, and began to see which could shoot the highest. At last theyhappened to let fly their arrows both together, and when they fell toearth again the tail feather of a golden hen was found sticking in one.Now the question began to arise whose was the lucky arrow, for they wereboth alike, and look as closely as you would you could see no differencebetween them. The prince declared that the arrow was his, and thegardener's boy was quite sure it was HIS and on this occasion he wasperfectly right. but, as they could not decide the matter, they wentstraight to the king.When the king had heard the story, he decided that the feather belongedto his son. but the other boy would not listen to this and claimed thefeather for himself. At length the king's patience gave way, and he saidangrily:'Very well. if you are so sure that the feather is yours, yours it shallbe. only you will have to seek till you find a golden hen with a feathermissing from her tail. And if you fail to find her your head will be theforfeit.'The boy had need of all his courage to listen silently to the king'swords. He had no idea where the golden hen might be, or even, if hediscovered that, how he was to get to her. But there was nothing for itbut to do the king's bidding, and he felt that the sooner he left thepalace the better. So he went home and put some food into a bag, andthen set forth, hoping that some accident might show him which path totake.After walking for several hours he met a fox, who seemed inclined to befriendly, and the boy was so glad to have anyone to talk to that he satdown and entered into conversation.'Where are you going?' asked the fox.'I have got to find a golden hen who has lost a feather out of hertail,' answered the boy. 'but I don't know where she lives or how Ishall catch her!''Oh, I can show you the way!' said the fox, who was really verygood natured. 'Far towards the east, in that direction, lives abeautiful maiden who is called "The Sister of the Sun." She has threegolden hens in her house. Perhaps the feather belongs to one of them.'The boy was delighted at this news, and they walked on all day together,the fox in front, and the boy behind. When evening came they lay down tosleep, and put the knapsack under their heads for a pillow.Suddenly, about midnight, the fox gave a low whine, and drew nearer tohis bedfellow. 'Cousin,' he whispered very low, 'there is someone comingwho will take the knapsack away from me. Look over there!' And the boy,peeping through the bushes, saw a man.'Oh, I don't think he will rob us!' said the boy. and when the man drewnear, he told them his story, which so much interested the stranger thathe asked leave to travel with them, as he might be of some use. So whenthe sun rose they set out again, the fox in front as before, the man andboy following.After some hours they reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun, whokept the golden hens among her treasures. They halted before the gateand took counsel as to which of them should go in and see the ladyherself.'I think it would be best for me to enter and steal the hens,' said thefox. but this did not please the boy at all.'No, it is my business, so it is right that I should go,' answered he.'You will find it a very difficult matter to get hold of the hens,'replied the fox.'Oh, nothing is likely to happen to me,' returned the boy.'Well, go then,' said the fox, 'but be careful not to make any mistake.Steal only the hen which has the feather missing from her tail, andleave the others alone.'The man listened, but did not interfere, and the boy entered the courtof the palace.He soon spied the three hens strutting proudly about, though they werereally anxiously wondering if there were not some grains lying on theground that they might be glad to eat. And as the last one passed byhim, he saw she had one feather missing from her tail.At this sight the youth darted forward and seized the hen by the neckso that she could not struggle. Then, tucking her comfortably under hisarm, he made straight for the gate. Unluckily, just as he was aboutto go through it he looked back and caught a glimpse of wonderfulsplendours from an open door of the palace. 'After all, there is nohurry,' he said to himself. 'I may as well see something now I AM here,'and turned back, forgetting all about the hen, which escaped from underhis arm, and ran to join her sisters.He was so much fascinated by the sight of all the beautiful things whichpeeped through the door that he scarcely noticed that he had lost theprize he had won. and he did not remember there was such a thing as ahen in the world when he beheld the Sister of the Sun sleeping on a bedbefore him.For some time he stood staring. then he came to himself with a start,and feeling that he had no business there, softly stole away, and wasfortunate enough to recapture the hen, which he took with him to thegate. On the threshold he stopped again. 'Why should I not look at theSister of the Sun?' he thought to himself. 'she is asleep, and willnever know.' And he turned back for the second time and entered thechamber, while the hen wriggled herself free as before. When he hadgazed his fill he went out into the courtyard and picked up his hen whowas seeking for corn.As he drew near the gate he paused. 'Why did I not give her a kiss?'he said to himself. 'I shall never kiss any woman so beautiful.' And hewrung his hands with regret, so that the hen fell to the ground and ranaway.'But I can do it still!' he cried with delight, and he rushed back tothe chamber and kissed the sleeping maiden on the forehead. But, alas!when he came out again he found that the hen had grown so shy that shewould not let him come near her. And, worse than that, her sisters beganto cluck so loud that the Sister of the Sun was awakened by the noise.She jumped up in haste from her bed, and going to the door she said tothe boy:'You shall never, never, have my hen till you bring me back my sisterwho was carried off by a giant to his castle, which is a long way off.'Slowly and sadly the youth left the palace and told his story to hisfriends, who were waiting outside the gate, how he had actually held thehen three times in his arms and had lost her.'I knew that we should not get off so easily,' said the fox, shakinghis head. 'but there is no more time to waste. Let us set off at once insearch of the sister. Luckily, I know the way.'They walked on for many days, till at length the fox, who, as usual, wasgoing first, stopped suddenly.'The giant's castle is not far now,' he said, 'but when we reach it youtwo must remain outside while I go and fetch the princess. Directly Ibring her out you must both catch hold of her tight, and get awayas fast as you can. while I return to the castle and talk to thegiants for there are many of them so that they may not notice theescape of the princess.'A few minutes later they arrived at the castle, and the fox, who hadoften been there before, slipped in without difficulty. There wereseveral giants, both young and old, in the hall, and they were alldancing round the princess. As soon as they saw the fox they cried out:'Come and dance too, old fox. it is a long time since we have seen you.'So the fox stood up, and did his steps with the best of them. but aftera while he stopped and said:'I know a charming new dance that I should like to show you. but it canonly be done by two people. If the princess will honour me for a fewminutes, you will soon see how it is done.''Ah, that is delightful. we want something new,' answered they, andplaced the princess between the outstretched arms of the fox. In oneinstant he had knocked over the great stand of lights that lightedthe hall, and in the darkness had borne the princess to the gate. Hiscomrades seized hold of her, as they had been bidden, and the fox wasback again in the hall before anyone had missed him. He found the giantsbusy trying to kindle a fire and get some light. but after a bit someonecried out:'Where is the princess?''Here, in my arms,' replied the fox. 'Don't be afraid. she is quitesafe.' And he waited until he thought that his comrades had gained agood start, and put at least five or six mountains between themselvesand the giants. Then he sprang through the door, calling, as he went:'The maiden is here. take her if you can!'At these words the giants understood that their prize had escaped, andthey ran after the fox as fast as their great legs could carry them,thinking that they should soon come up with the fox, who they supposedhad the princess on his back. The fox, on his side, was far too cleverto choose the same path that his friends had taken, but would in and outof the forest, till at last even HE was tired out, and fell fast asleepunder a tree. Indeed, he was so exhausted with his day's work that henever heard the approach of the giants, and their hands were alreadystretched out to seize his tail when his eyes opened, and with atremendous bound he was once more beyond their reach. All the rest ofthe night the fox ran and ran. but when bright red spread over theeast, he stopped and waited till the giants were close upon him. Then heturned, and said quietly: 'Look, there is the Sister of the Sun!'The giants raised their eyes all at once, and were instantly turned intopillars of stone. The fox then made each pillar a low bow, and set offto join his friends.He knew a great many short cuts across the hills, so it was not longbefore he came up with them, and all four travelled night and day tillthey reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun. What joy and feastingthere was throughout the palace at the sight of the princess whom theyhad mourned as dead! and they could not make enough of the boy who hadgone through such dangers in order to rescue her. The golden hen wasgiven to him at once, and, more than that, the Sister of the Sun toldhim that, in a little time, when he was a few years older, she wouldherself pay a visit to his home and become his wife. The boy couldhardly believe his ears when he heard what was in store for him, for hiswas the most beautiful princess in all the world. and however thick thedarkness might be, it fled away at once from the light of a star on herforehead.So the boy set forth on his journey home, with his friends for company.his heart full of gladness when he thought of the promise of theprincess. But, one by one, his comrades dropped off at the places wherethey had first met him, and he was quite alone when he reached hisnative town and the gates of the palace. With the golden hen under hisarm he presented himself before the king, and told his adventures, andhow he was going to have for a wife a princess so wonderful and unlikeall other princesses, that the star on her forehead could turn nightinto day. The king listened silently, and when the boy had done, he saidquietly: 'If I find that your story is not true I will have you throwninto a cask of pitch.''It is true every word of it,' answered the boy. and went on to tellthat the day and even the hour were fixed when his bride was to come andseek him.But as the time drew near, and nothing was heard of the princess, theyouth became anxious and uneasy, especially when it came to his earsthat the great cask was being filled with pitch, and that sticks werelaid underneath to make a fire to boil it with. All day long the boystood at the window, looking over the sea by which the princess musttravel. but there were no signs of her, not even the tiniest white sail.And, as he stood, soldiers came and laid hands on him, and led him upto the cask, where a big fire was blazing, and the horrid black pitchboiling and bubbling over the sides. He looked and shuddered, but therewas no escape. so he shut his eyes to avoid seeing.The word was given for him to mount the steps which led to the top ofthe cask, when, suddenly, some men were seen running with all theirmight, crying as they went that a large ship with its sails spread wasmaking straight for the city. No one knew what the ship was, or whenceit came. but the king declared that he would not have the boy burnedbefore its arrival, there would always be time enough for that.At length the vessel was safe in port, and a whisper went through thewatching crowd that on board was the Sister of the Sun, who had come tomarry the young peasant as she had promised. In a few moments more shehad landed, and desired to be shown the way to the cottage which herbridegroom had so often described to her. and whither he had been ledback by the king's order at the first sign of the ship.'Don't you know me?' asked the Sister of the Sun, bending over him wherehe lay, almost driven out of his senses with terror.'No, no. I don't know you,' answered the youth, without raising hiseyes.'Kiss me,' said the Sister of the Sun. and the youth obeyed her, butstill without looking up.'Don't you know me NOW?' asked she.'No, I don't know you I don't know you,' he replied, with the manner ofa man whom fear had driven mad.At this the Sister of the Sun grew rather frightened, and beginning atthe beginning, she told him the story of his meeting with her, andhow she had come a long way in order to marry him. And just as she hadfinished in walked the king, to see if what the boy had said was reallytrue. But hardly had he opened the door of the cottage when he wasalmost blinded by the light that filled it. and he remembered whathe had been told about the star on the forehead of the princess. Hestaggered back as if he had been struck, then a curious feeling tookhold of him, which he had never felt before, and falling on his kneesbefore the Sister of the Sun, he implored her to give up all thought ofthe peasant boy, and to share his throne. But she laughed, and said shehad a finer throne of her own, if she wanted to sit on it, and that shewas free to please herself, and would have no husband but the boy whomshe would never have seen except for the king himself.'I shall marry him to morrow,' ended she. and ordered the preparationsto be set on foot at once.When the next day came, however, the bridegroom's father informed theprincess that, by the law of the land, the marriage must take place inthe presence of the king. but he hoped his majesty would not longdelay his arrival. An hour or two passed, and everyone was waitingand watching, when at last the sound of trumpets was heard and a grandprocession was seen marching up the street. A chair covered with velvethad been made ready for the king, and he took his seat upon it, and,looking round upon the assembled company, he said:'I have no wish to forbid this marriage. but, before I can allow it tobe celebrated, the bridegroom must prove himself worthy of such a brideby fulfilling three tasks. And the first is that in a single day he mustcut down every tree in an entire forest.The youth stood aghast as the king's words. He had never cut down a treein his life, and had not the least idea how to begin. And as for awhole forest ! But the princess saw what was passing in his mind, andwhispered to him:'Don't be afraid. In my ship you will find an axe, which you must carryoff to the forest. When you have cut down one tree with it just say:"So let the forest fall," and in an instant all the trees will be on theground. But pick up three chips of the tree you felled, and put them inyour pocket.'And the young man did exactly as he was bid, and soon returned with thethree chips safe in his coat.The following morning the princess declared that she had been thinkingabout the matter, and that, as she was not a subject of the king, shesaw no reason why she should be bound by his laws. and she meant to bemarried that very day. But the bridegroom's father told her that it wasall very well for her to talk like that, but it was quite different forhis son, who would pay with his head for any disobedience to the king'scommands. However, in consideration of what the youth had done the daybefore, he hoped his majesty's heart might be softened, especially ashe had sent a message that they might expect him at once. With this thebridal pair had to be content, and be as patient as they could till theking's arrival.He did not keep them long, but they saw by his face that nothing goodawaited them.'The marriage cannot take place,' he said shortly, 'till the youth hasjoined to their roots all the trees he cut down yesterday.'This sounded much more difficult than what he had done before, and heturned in despair to the Sister of the Sun.'It is all right,' she whispered encouragingly. 'Take this water andsprinkle it on one of the fallen trees, and say to it: "So let all thetrees of the forest stand upright," and in a moment they will be erectagain.'And the young man did what he was told, and left the forest lookingexactly as it had done before.Now, surely, thought the princess, there was no longer any need to putoff the wedding. and she gave orders that all should be ready for thefollowing day. But again the old man interfered, and declared thatwithout the king's permission no marriage could take place. Forthe third time his majesty was sent for, and for the third time heproclaimed that he could not give his consent until the bridegroomshould have slain a serpent which dwelt in a broad river that flowed atthe back of the castle. Everyone knew stories of this terrible serpent,though no one had actually seen it. but from time to time a childstrayed from home and never came back, and then mothers would forbid theother children to go near the river, which had juicy fruits and lovelyflowers growing along its banks.So no wonder the youth trembled and turned pale when he heard what laybefore him.'You will succeed in this also,' whispered the Sister of the Sun,pressing his hand, 'for in my ship is a magic sword which will cutthrough everything. Go down to the river and unfasten a boat which liesmoored there, and throw the chips into the water. When the serpentrears up its body you will cut off its three heads with one blow of yoursword. Then take the tip of each tongue and go with it to morrow morninginto the king's kitchen. If the king himself should enter, just say tohim: "Here are three gifts I offer you in return for the services youdemanded of me!" and throw the tips of the serpent's tongues at him, andhasten to the ship as fast as your legs will carry you. But be sure youtake great care never to look behind you.'The young man did exactly what the princess had told him. The threechips which he flung into the river became a boat, and, as he steeredacross the stream, the serpent put up its head and hissed loudly. Theyouth had his sword ready, and in another second the three heads werebobbing on the water. Guiding his boat till he was beside them, hestooped down and snipped off the ends of the tongues, and then rowedback to the other bank. Next morning he carried them into the royalkitchen, and when the king entered, as was his custom, to see what hewas going to have for dinner, the bridegroom flung them in his face,saying: 'Here is a gift for you in return for the services you asked ofme.' And, opening the kitchen door, he fled to the ship. Unluckilyhe missed the way, and in his excitement ran backwards and forwards,without knowing whither he was going. At last, in despair, he lookedround, and saw to his amazement that both the city and palace hadvanished completely. Then he turned his eyes in the other direction,and, far, far away, he caught sight of the ship with her sails spread,and a fair wind behind her.This dreadful spectacle seemed to take away his senses, and all daylong he wandered about, without knowing where he was going, till, inthe evening, he noticed some smoke from a little hut of turf near by. Hewent straight up to it and cried: 'O mother, let me come in for pity'ssake!' The old woman who lived in the hut beckoned to him to enter, andhardly was he inside when he cried again: 'O mother, can you tell meanything of the Sister of the Sun?'But the woman only shook her head. 'No, I know nothing of her,' saidshe.The young man turned to leave the hut, but the old woman stopped him,and, giving him a letter, begged him to carry it to her next eldestsister, saying: 'If you should get tired on the way, take out the letterand rustle the paper.'This advice surprised the young man a good deal, as he did not see howit could help him. but he did not answer, and went down the road withoutknowing where he was going. At length he grew so tired he could walkno more. then he remembered what the old woman had said. After he hadrustled the leaves only once all fatigue disappeared, and he strode overthe grass till he came to another little turf hut.'Let me in, I pray you, dear mother,' cried he. And the door opened infront of him. 'Your sister has sent you this letter,' he said, and addedquickly: 'O mother! can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun?''No, I know nothing of her,' answered she. But as he turned hopelesslyaway, she stopped him.'If you happen to pass my eldest sister's house, will you give her thisletter?' said she. 'And if you should get tired on the road, just takeit out of your pocket and rustle the paper.'So the young man put the letter in his pocket, and walked all day overthe hills till he reached a little turf hut, exactly like the other two.'Let me in, I pray you, dear mother,' cried he. And as he entered headded: 'Here is a letter from your sister and can you tell me anythingof the Sister of the Sun?''Yes, I can,' answered the old woman. 'She lives in the castle on theBanka. Her father lost a battle only a few days ago because you hadstolen his sword from him, and the Sister of the Sun herself is almostdead of grief. But, when you see her, stick a pin into the palm of herhand, and suck the drops of blood that flow. Then she will grow calmer,and will know you again. Only, beware. for before you reach the castleon the Banka fearful things will happen.'He thanked the old woman with tears of gladness for the good news shehad given him, and continued his journey. But he had not gone veryfar when, at a turn of the road, he met with two brothers, who werequarrelling over a piece of cloth.'My good men, what are you fighting about?' said he. 'That cloth doesnot look worth much!''Oh, it is ragged enough,' answered they, 'but it was left us by ourfather, and if any man wraps it round him no one can see him. and weeach want it for our own.''Let me put it round me for a moment,' said the youth, 'and then I willtell you whose it ought to be!'The brothers were pleased with this idea, and gave him the stuff.but the moment he had thrown it over his shoulder he disappeared ascompletely as if he had never been there at all.Meanwhile the young man walked briskly along, till he came up with twoother men, who were disputing over a table cloth.'What is the matter?' asked he, stopping in front of them.'If this cloth is spread on a table,' answered they, 'the table isinstantly covered with the most delicious food. and we each want to haveit.''Let me try the table cloth,' said the youth, 'and I will tell you whoseit ought to be.'The two men were quite pleased with this idea, and handed him the cloth.He then hastily threw the first piece of stuff round his shoulders andvanished from sight, leaving the two men grieving over their own folly.The young man had not walked far before he saw two more men standingby the road side, both grasping the same stout staff, and sometimes oneseemed on the point of getting it, and sometimes the other.'What are you quarrelling about? You could cut a dozen sticks from thewood each just as good as that!' said the young man. And as he spoke thefighters both stopped and looked at him.'Ah! you may think so,' said one, 'but a blow from one end of this stickwill kill a man, while a touch from the other end will bring him back tolife. You won't easily find another stick like that!''No. that is true,' answered the young man. 'Let me just look at it, andI will tell you whose it ought to be.'The men were pleased with the idea, and handed him the staff.'It is very curious, certainly,' said he. 'but which end is it thatrestores people to life? After all, anyone can be killed by a blow froma stick if it is only hard enough!' But when he was shown the end hethrew the stuff over his shoulders and vanished.At last he saw another set of men, who were struggling for thepossession of a pair of shoes.'Why can't you leave that pair of old shoes alone?' said he. 'Why, youcould not walk a yard in them!''Yes, they are old enough,' answered they. 'but whoever puts them on andwishes himself at a particular place, gets there without going.''That sounds very clever,' said the youth. 'Let me try them, and then Ishall be able to tell you whose they ought to be.'The idea pleased the men, and they handed him the shoes. but the momentthey were on his feet he cried:'I wish to be in the castle on the Banka!' And before he knew it, he wasthere, and found the Sister of the Sun dying of grief. He knelt down byher side, and pulling a pin he stuck it into the palm of her hand, sothat a drop of blood gushed out. This he sucked, as he had been told todo by the old woman, and immediately the princess came to herself, andflung her arms round his neck. Then she told him all her story, and whathad happened since the ship had sailed away without him. 'But theworst misfortune of all,' she added, 'was a battle which my father lostbecause you had vanished with his magic sword. and out of his whole armyhardly one man was left.''Show me the battle field,' said he. And she took him to a wild heath,where the dead were lying as they fell, waiting for burial. One by onehe touched them with the end of his staff, till at length they all stoodbefore him. Throughout the kingdom there was nothing but joy. andTHIS time the wedding was REALLY celebrated. And the bridal pair livedhappily in the castle on the Banka till they died.