There was once a poor woman that had three daughters, and one day theeldest said, "Mother, bake my cake and kill my cock till I go seek myfortune." So she did, and when all was ready, says her mother to her,"Which will you have half of these with my blessing, or the whole withmy curse?" "Curse or no curse," says she, "the whole is little enough."So away she set, and if the mother didn't give her her curse, she didn'tgive her her blessing.She walked, and she walked, till she was tired and hungry, and then shesat down to take her dinner. While she was eating it a poor woman cameup, and asked for a bit. "The dickens a bit you'll get from me," saysshe. "it's all too little for myself." And the poor woman walked awayvery sorrowful. At nightfall she got lodging at a farmer's, and thewoman of the house told her that she'd give her a spadeful of gold and ashovelful of silver if she'd only sit up and watch her son's corpse thatwas waking in the next room. She said she'd do that, and so, when thefamily were in their bed, she sat by the fire, and cast an eye from timeto time on the corpse that was lying under the table.All at once the dead man got up in his shroud, and stood before her, andsaid, "All alone, fair maid?" She gave him no answer. when he had saidit the third time he struck her with a switch, and she became a greyflag.About a week after, the second daughter went to seek her fortune, andshe didn't care for her mother's blessing no more _nor_ her sister, andthe very same thing happened to her. She was left a grey flag by theside of the other.At last the youngest went off in search of the other two, and she tookcare to carry her mother's blessing with her. She shared her dinner withthe poor woman on the road, and _she_ told her that she would watch overher.Well, she got lodging in the same place as the others, and agreed tomind the corpse. She sat up by the fire, with the dog and cat, andamused herself with some apples and nuts the mistress had given her. Shethought it a pity that the man under the table was a corpse, he was sohandsome.But at last he got up, and, says he, "All alone, fair maid?" and shewasn't long about an answer:All alone I am not,I've little dog Douse, and Pussy, my cat.I've apples to roast and nuts to crack,And all alone I am not."Ho, ho!" says he, "you're a girl of courage, though you wouldn't haveenough to follow me. I am now going to cross the quaking bog, and gothrough the burning forest. I must then enter the cave of terror andclimb the hill of glass, and drop from the top of it into the Dead Sea.""I'll follow you," says she, "for I engaged to mind you." He thought toprevent her, but she was stiff as he was stout.Out he sprang through the window, and she followed him, till they cameto the "Green Hills," and then says he:"Open, open, Green Hills and let the light of the Green Hills through.""Aye," says the girl, "and let the fair maid too."They opened, and the man and woman passed through, and there they wereon the edge of a bog.He trod lightly over the shaky bits of moss and sod. and while she wasthinking of how she'd get across, the old beggar appeared to her, butmuch nicer dressed, touched her shoes with a stick, and the soles spreada foot on each side. So she easily got over the shaky marsh. The burningwood was at the edge of the bog, and there the good fairy flung a damp,thick cloak over her, and through the flames she went, and a hair of herhead was not singed. Then they passed through the dark cavern ofhorrors, when she'd have heard the most horrible yells, only that thefairy stopped her ears with wax. She saw frightful things, with bluevapours round them, and felt the sharp rocks and the slimy backs offrogs and snakes.When they got out of the cavern, they were at the mountain of glass. andthen the fairy made her slippers so sticky with a tap of her rod thatshe followed the young corpse quite easily to the top. There was thedeep sea a quarter of a mile under them, and so the corpse said to her,"Go home to my mother, and tell her how far you came to do her bidding.Farewell!" He sprung head foremost down into the sea, and after him sheplunged, without stopping a moment to think about it.She was stupefied at first, but when they reached the waters sherecovered her thoughts. After piercing down a great depth, they saw agreen light towards the bottom. At last they were below the sea, thatseemed a green sky above them. and, sitting in a beautiful meadow, shehalf asleep, and her head resting against his side. She couldn't keepher eyes open, and she couldn't tell how long she slept. but when shewoke, she was in bed at his house, and he and his mother sitting by herbedside, and watching her.It was a witch that had a spite to the young man because he wouldn'tmarry her, and so she got power to keep him in a state between life anddeath till a young woman would rescue him by doing what she had done.So, at her request, her sisters got their own shapes again, and weresent back to their mother, with their spades of gold and shovels ofsilver. Maybe they were better after that, but I doubt it much. Theyoungest got the young gentleman for her husband. I'm sure she livedhappy, and, if they didn't live happy _that we may_!PATRICK KENNEDY.