Once upon a time there lived a shepherd who served his masterfaithfully and honestly. One day whilst keeping the sheep in the forest,he heard a hissing, and wondered what the noise could be. So he wentfarther into the wood to try and find out. There he saw that the forestwas on fire, and a snake was hissing in the midst of the flames. Theshepherd watched to see what the snake would do, for it was quitesurrounded by the fire, which approached it nearer and nearer.Then the snake cried out, "For God's sake, good shepherd, save me fromthe fire!"So the shepherd stretched his crook across the flames and the snakeglided rapidly over the staff and up his arm onto his shoulder, till atlast it wound itself round his neck. Then the shepherd was terrified andexclaimed, "What shall I do? What an unlucky wretch I am! I saved you, andnow your are about to kill me!"The snake answered, "Do not be afraid. Only take me to the house of myfather. My father is the king of snakes."But the shepherd, being already in great fear, began to excuse himself,saying he must not leave his sheep. Then the snake said, "Nothing willhappen to your sheep. Do not be anxious about them. But let us hurryhome."So the shepherd went on with the snake through the forest, until theycame to a gate made entirely of snakes. Then the snake on the neck of theshepherd hissed, and instantly the snakes untwined themselves, so that theman could pass through. As soon as they had gone through, the snake saidto him, "When you reach my father's house he will offer to give youwhatever you like   gold, silver, or precious stones. Do not, however,take any of these things. Choose, instead, the language of animals. Hewill hesitate at first, but at last he will give it you."Meanwhile they arrived at the palace, and the king of snakes said,weeping, "For God's sake, my child, where were you?" Thereupon the snaketold him all that had happened, how he had been surrounded by fire, andthe shepherd had saved him. Then the snake king said to the shepherd,"What do you wish that I should give you for saving my son?"The shepherd answered, "I desire nothing but the language ofanimals."The snake king, however, said, "That is not good for you, for if I giveit you, and you tell anyone about it, you will instantly die. Therefore itis better that you ask me for something else.""If you wish to give me anything," replied the shepherd, "give me thelanguage of animals. If you will not give me that, I want nothing   sogood bye," and he turned to go away.Then the snake king called him back, saying, "If you indeed wish it somuch, take it. Open your mouth." The shepherd did so, and the snake kingblew into his mouth, and said, "Now blow once yourself in my mouth." TheShepherd did so, and then the snake king blew again into his mouth, andthis they did three times. After that the snake said, "Now you possess thelanguage of animals. Go, in God's name, but do not for the world tellanyone about it. If you tell anyone you will instantly die."The shepherd returned across the forest, and, passing through it, heunderstood everything the birds and animals, and even the plants weresaying to each other. When he came to his sheep he found them all there,safe and sound, so he laid himself down to rest a little.Hardly had he done so before two or three ravens settled on a tree nearhim, and began to converse together, saying, "If that shepherd only knewthat just on the spot where the black sheep is lying there is, deep in theearth, a cave full of gold and silver!"When the shepherd heard that he went off to his master and told him.The master brought a cart, and dug down to the cave, and carried thetreasure away home. But the master was honest, so he gave up the whole ofthe treasure to the shepherd, saying, "Here my son, all this wealthbelongs to you. For to you God gave it. Build a house, marry, and liveupon the treasure."So the shepherd took the money, built a house, and married, and by andby he became the richest man in the whole neighborhood. He kept his ownshepherd, and cattle driver, and swineherd. In short, he had greatproperty and made much money.Once, just at Christmas, he said to his wife, "Get ready some wine andother food, and tomorrow we will feast the shepherds."The wife did so, and in the morning they went to their farm. Towardsevening the master said to the shepherds, "Come here, all of you. Youshall eat, drink, and make merry together, and I will go myself this nightto watch the sheep."So the master went to watch his sheep, and, about midnight, the wolvesbegan to howl and the dogs to bark. The wolves spoke, in wolf language,"May we come and take something? You also, shall get a part of theprey."And the dogs answered, in dog language, "Come! We also are ready to eatsomething."But there was one old dog there who had only two teeth left. This olddog shouted furiously, "Come on, you miserable wretches, if you dare. Solong as I have these two teeth left you shall not do any damage to mymaster's property."All this the master heard and understood. Next day he ordered all thedogs to be killed except that old one. The servants began to remonstrate,saying, "For God's sake, master, it is a pity to do this."But the master answered, "Do as I have ordered you," and started withhis wife to go home. They rode on horseback, he on a fine horse and hiswife on a handsome mare. But the master's horse went so fast that the wiferemained a little behind.Then the master's horse neighed, and said to the mare, "Come on, why doyou stay behind?"And the mare answered, "Ah, to you it is easy   you are carrying onlyone weight, and I am carrying three."Thereupon the man turned his head and laughed. The wife saw himlaughing, and urged the mare on quicker till she came up to her husband,and asked him, "Why were you laughing?"He said merely, "I had good reason to laugh!"But the wife was not satisfied, and again begged he would tell her whyhe laughed. He excused himself, exclaiming, "Give up questioning me. Whathas come to you, my wife? I forget now why it was I laughed."But the more he refused to tell her, the more she wished to know. Atlast the man said, "If I tell you I shall die immediately!"That, however, did not quiet her, and she kept on asking, saying tohim, "You must tell me."In the meantime they reached their house. When they had done so the manordered a coffin to be made, and, when it was ready, had it placed infront of the house, and laid himself down in it. Then he said to his wife,"Now I will tell you why I laughed, but the moment I tell you I shalldie."So he looked around once more, and saw that the old dog had come fromthe field, and had taken his stand over his head, and was howling. Whenthe man noticed this he said to his wife, "Bring a piece of bread for thispoor dog."The wife brought a piece and threw it to the dog, but the dog did noteven look at it, and a cock came near and began to peck at it.Then the dog said to the cock, "You think only about eating. Do youknow that our master is going to die?"And the cock answered, "Well, let him die, since he is so stupid. Ihave a hundred wives, and often at nights I gather them all round a grainof corn, and, when they are all there, I pick it up myself. If any of themare angry, I peck them. That is my way of keeping them quiet. Only look atthe master, however. He is not able to rule one single wife!"The man, hearing that, got out of the coffin, took a stick, and calledhis wife to him, saying, "Come now, and I will tell you what you want toknow."The wife, seeing she was in danger of getting a beating, left him inpeace, and never asked him again why it was he laughed.