The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of threetreasures which have been considered sacred, and guarded with jealouscare from time immemorial. These are the Yatano no Kagami or the Mirrorof Yata, the Yasakami no Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and theMurakumo no Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo.Of these three treasures of the Empire, the sword of Murakumo,afterwards known as Kusanagi no Tsrugugi, or the grass cleaving sword,is considered the most precious and most highly to be honored, for itis the symbol of strength to this nation of warriors and the talismanof invincibility for the Emperor, while he holds it sacred in theshrine of his ancestors.Nearly two thousand years ago this sword was kept at the shrines ofIte, the temples dedicated to the worship of Amaterasu, the great andbeautiful Sun Goddess from whom the Japanese Emperors are said to bedescended.There is a story of knightly adventure and daring which explains whythe name of the sword was changed from that of Murakumo to Kasanagi,which means grass clearing.Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko,the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of theJapanese dynasty. This Prince was the second son of the Emperor Keiko,and he was named Yamato. From his childhood he proved himself to be ofremarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed withpride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even morethan he did his elder son.Now when Prince Yamato had grown to manhood (in the olden days ofJapanese history, a boy was considered to have reached man's estate atthe early age of sixteen) the realm was much troubled by a band ofoutlaws whose chiefs were two brothers, Kumaso and Takeru. These rebelsseemed to delight in rebelling against the King, in breaking the lawsand defying all authority.At last King Keiko ordered his younger son Prince Yamato to subdue thebrigands and, if possible, to rid the land of their evil lives. PrinceYamato was only sixteen years of age, he had but reached his manhoodaccording to the law, yet though he was such a youth in years hepossessed the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and knew notwhat fear was. Even then there was no man who could rival him forcourage and bold deeds, and he received his father's command with greatjoy.He at once made ready to start, and great was the stir in the precinctsof the Palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together andprepared for the expedition, and polished up their armor and donned it.Before he left his father's Court he went to pray at the shrine of Iseand to take leave of his aunt the Princess Yamato, for his heart wassomewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face, and hefelt that he needed the protection of his ancestress, Amaterasu, theSun Goddess. The Princess his aunt came out to give him glad welcome,and congratulated him on being trusted with so great a mission by hisfather the King. She then gave him one of her gorgeous robes as akeepsake to go with him and to bring him good luck, saying that itwould surely be of service to him on this adventure. She then wishedhim all success in his undertaking and bade him good speed.The young Prince bowed low before his aunt, and received her graciousgift with much pleasure and many respectful bows."I will now set out," said the Prince, and returning to the Palace heput himself at the head of his troops. Thus cheered by his aunt'sblessing, he felt ready for all that might befall, and marching throughthe land he went down to the Southern Island of Kiushiu, the home ofthe brigands.Before many days had passed he reached the Southern Island, and thenslowly but surely made his way to the head quarters of the chiefsKumaso and Takeru. He now met with great difficulties, for he found thecountry exceedingly wild and rough. The mountains were high and steep,the valleys dark and deep, and huge trees and bowlders of rock blockedup the road and stopped the progress of his army. It was all butimpossible to go on.Though the Prince was but a youth he had the wisdom of years, and,seeing that it was vain to try and lead his men further, he said tohimself:"To attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to mymen only makes my task harder. We cannot clear the roads and fight aswell. It is wiser for me to resort to stratagem and come upon myenemies unawares. In that way I may be able to kill them without muchexertion."So he now bade his army halt by the way. His wife, the PrincessOtotachibana, had accompanied him, and he bade her bring him the robehis aunt the priestess of Ise had given him, and to help him attirehimself as a woman. With her help he put on the robe, and let his hairdown till it flowed over his shoulders. Ototachibana then brought himher comb, which he put in his black tresses, and then adorned himselfwith strings of strange jewels just as you see in the picture. When hehad finished his unusual toilet, Ototachibana brought him her mirror.He smiled as he gazed at himself the disguise was so perfect.He hardly knew himself, so changed was he. All traces of the warriorhad disappeared, and in the shining surface only a beautiful ladylooked back at him.Thus completely disguised, he set out for the enemy's camp alone. Inthe folds of his silk gown, next his strong heart, was hidden a sharpdagger.The two chiefs Kumaso and Takeru wore sitting in their tent, resting inthe cool of the evening, when the Prince approached. They were talkingof the news which had recently been carried to them, that the King'sson had entered their country with a large army determined toexterminate their band. They had both heard of the young warrior'srenown, and for the first time in their wicked lives they felt afraid.In a pause in their talk they happened to look up, and saw through thedoor of the tent a beautiful woman robed in sumptuous garments comingtowards them. Like an apparition of loveliness she appeared in the softtwilight. Little did they dream that it was their enemy whose comingthey so dreaded who now stood before them in this disguise."What a beautiful woman! Where has she come from?" said the astonishedKumaso, forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at thegentle intruder.He beckoned to the disguised Prince and bade him sit down and servethem with wine. Yamato Take felt his heart swell with a fierce glee forhe now knew that his plan would succeed. However, he dissembledcleverly, and putting on a sweet air of shyness he approached the rebelchief with slow steps and eyes glancing like a frightened deer. Charmedto distraction by the girl's loveliness Kumaso drank cup after cup ofwine for the pleasure of seeing her pour it out for him, till at lasthe was quite overcome with the quantity he had drunk.This was the moment for which the brave Prince had been waiting.Flinging down the wine jar, he seized the tipsy and astonished Kumasoand quickly stabbed him to death with the dagger which he had secretlycarried hidden in his breast.Takeru, the brigand's brother, was terror struck as soon as he saw whatwas happening and tried to escape, but Prince Yamato was too quick forhim. Ere he could reach the tent door the Prince was at his heel, hisgarments were clutched by a hand of iron, and a dagger flashed beforehis eyes and he lay stabbed to the earth, dying but not yet dead."Wait one moment!" gasped the brigand painfully, and he seized thePrince's hand.Yamato relaxed his hold somewhat and said."Why should I pause, thou villain?"The brigand raised himself fearfully and said:"Tell me from whence you come, and whom I have the honor of addressing?Hitherto I believed that my dead brother and I were the strongest menin the land, and that there was no one who could overcome us. Alone youhave ventured into our stronghold, alone you have attacked and killedus! Surely you are more than mortal?"Then the young Prince answered with a proud smile: "I am the son ofthe King and my name is Yamato, and I have been sent by my father asthe avenger of evil to bring death to all rebels! No longer shallrobbery and murder hold my people in terror!" and he held the daggerdripping red above the rebel's head."Ah," gasped the dying man with a great effort, "I have often heard ofyou. You are indeed a strong man to have so easily overcome us. Allowme to give you a new name. From henceforth you shall be known as YamatoTake. Our title I bequeath to you as the bravest man in Yamato."And with these noble words, Takeru fell back and died.The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemiesin the world, was prepared to return to the capital. On the way back hepassed through the province of Idum. Here he met with another outlawnamed Idzumo Takeru who he knew had done much harm in the land. Heagain resorted to stratagem, and feigned friendship with the rebelunder an assumed name. Having done this he made a sword of wood andjammed it tightly in the shaft of his own strong sword. This hepurposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when heexpected to meet the third robber Takeru.He now invited Takeru to the bank of the River Hinokawa, and persuadedhim to try a swim with him in the cool refreshing waters of the river.As it was a hot summer's day, the rebel was nothing loath to take aplunge in the river, while his enemy was still swimming down the streamthe Prince turned back and landed with all possible haste. Unperceived,he managed to change swords, putting his wooden one in place of thekeen steel sword of Takeru.Knowing nothing of this, the brigand came up to the bank shortly. Assoon as he had landed and donned his clothes, the Prince came forwardand asked him to cross swords with him to prove his skill, saying:"Let us two prove which is the better swordsman of the two!"The robber agreed with delight, feeling certain of victory, for he wasfamous as a fencer in his province and he did not know who hisadversary was. He seized quickly what he thought was his sword andstood on guard to defend himself. Alas! for the rebel the sword was thewooden one of the young Prince and in vain Takeru tried to unsheatheit it was jammed fast, not all his exerted strength could move it.Even if his efforts had been successful the sword would have been of nouse to him for it was of wood. Yamato Take saw that his enemy was inhis power, and swinging high the sword he had taken from Takeru hebrought it down with great might and dexterity and cut off the robber'shead.In this way, sometimes by using his wisdom and sometimes by using hisbodily strength, and at other times by resorting to craftiness, whichwas as much esteemed in those days as it is despised in these, heprevailed against all the King's foes one by one, and brought peace andrest to the land and the people.When he returned to the capital the King praised him for his bravedeeds, and held a feast in the Palace in honor of his safe coming homeand presented him with many rare gifts. From this time forth the Kingloved him more than ever and would not let Yamato Take go from hisside, for he said that his son was now as precious to him as one of hisarms.But the Prince was not allowed to live an idle life long. When he wasabout thirty years old, news was brought that the Ainu race, theaborigines of the islands of Japan, who had been conquered and pushednorthwards by the Japanese, had rebelled in the Eastern provinces, andleaving the vicinity which had been allotted to them were causing greattrouble in the land. The King decided that it was necessary to send anarmy to do battle with them and bring them to reason. But who was tolead the men?Prince Yamato Take at once offered to go and bring the newly arisenrebels into subjection. Now as the King loved the Prince dearly, andcould not bear to have him go out of his sight even for the length ofone day, he was of course very loath to send him on his dangerousexpedition. But in the whole army there was no warrior so strong or sobrave as the Prince his son, so that His Majesty, unable to dootherwise, reluctantly complied with Yamato's wish.When the time came for the Prince to start, the King gave him a spearcalled the Eight Arms Length Spear of the Holly Tree (the handle wasprobably made from the wood of the holly tree), and ordered him to setout to subjugate the Eastern Barbarians as the Ainu were then called.The Eight Arms Length Spear of the Holly Tree of those old days, wasprized by warriors just as much as the Standard or Banner is valued bya regiment in these modern days, when given by the King to his soldierson the occasion of setting out for war.The Prince respectfully and with great reverence received the King'sspear, and leaving the capital, marched with his army to the East. Onhis way he visited first of all the temples of Ise for worship, and hisaunt the Princess of Yamato and High Priestess came out to greet him.She it was who had given him her robe which had proved such a boon tohim before in helping him to overcome and slay the brigands of the West.He told her all that had happened to him, and of the great part herkeepsake had played in the success of his previous undertaking, andthanked her very heartily. When she heard that he was starting out onceagain to do battle with his father's enemies, she went into the temple,and reappeared bearing a sword and a beautiful bag which she had madeherself, and which was full of flints, which in those times people usedinstead of matches for making fire. These she presented to him as aparting gift.The sword was the sword of Murakumo, one of the three sacred treasureswhich comprise the insignia of the Imperial House of Japan. No moreauspicious talisman of luck and success could she have given hernephew, and she bade him use it in the hour of his greatest need.Yamato Take now bade farewell to his aunt, and once more placinghimself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East throughthe province of Owari, and then he reached the province of Suruga. Herethe governor welcomed the Prince right heartily and entertained himroyally with many feasts. When these were over, the governor told hisguest that his country was famous for its fine deer, and proposed adeer hunt for the Prince's amusement. The Prince was utterly deceivedby the cordiality of his host, which was all feigned, and gladlyconsented to join in the hunt.The governor then led the Prince to a wild and extensive plain wherethe grass grew high and in great abundance. Quite ignorant that thegovernor had laid a trap for him with the desire to compass his death,the Prince began to ride hard and hunt down the deer, when all of asudden to his amazement he saw flames and smoke bursting out from thebush in front of him. Realizing his danger he tried to retreat, but nosooner did he turn his horse in the opposite direction than he saw thateven there the prairie was on fire. At the same time the grass on hisleft and right burst into flames, and these began to spread swiftlytowards him on all sides. He looked round for a chance of escape. Therewas none. He was surrounded by fire."This deer hunt was then only a cunning trick of the enemy!" said thePrince, looking round on the flames and the smoke that crackled androlled in towards him on every side. "What a fool I was to be luredinto this trap like a wild beast!" and he ground his teeth with rage ashe thought of the governor's smiling treachery.Dangerous as was his situation now, the Prince was not in the leastconfounded. In his dire extremity he remembered the gifts his aunt hadgiven him when they parted, and it seemed to him as if she must, withprophetic foresight, have divined this hour of need. He coolly openedthe flint bag that his aunt had given him and set fire to the grassnear him. Then drawing the sword of Murakumo from its sheath he set towork to cut down the grass on either side of him with all speed. Hedetermined to die, if that were necessary, fighting for his life andnot standing still waiting for death to come to him.Strange to say the wind began to change and to blow from the oppositedirection, and the fiercest portion of the burning bush which hadhitherto threatened to come upon him was now blown right away from him,and the Prince, without even a scratch on his body or a single hairburned, lived to tell the tale of his wonderful escape, while the windrising to a gale overtook the governor, and he was burned to death inthe flames he had set alight to kill Yamato Take.Now the Prince ascribed his escape entirely to the virtue of the swordof Murakumo, and to the protection of Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess ofIse, who controls the wind and all the elements and insures the safetyof all who pray to her in the hour of danger. Lifting the precioussword he raised it above his head many times in token of his greatrespect, and as he did this he re named it Kusanagi no Tsurugi or theGrass Cleaving Sword, and the place where he set fire to the grassround him and escaped from death in the burning prairie, he calledYaidzu. To this day there is a spot along the great Tokaido railwaynamed Yaidzu, which is said to be the very place where this thrillingevent took place.Thus did the brave Prince Yamato Take escape out of the snare laid forhim by his enemy. He was full of resource and courage, and finallyoutwitted and subdued all his foes. Leaving Yaidzu he marched eastward,and came to the shore at Idzu from whence he wished to cross to Kadzusa.In these dangers and adventures he had been followed by his faithfulloving wife the Princess Ototachibana. For his sake she counted theweariness of the long journeys and the dangers of war as nothing, andher love for her warrior husband was so great that she felt well repaidfor all her wanderings if she could but hand him his sword when hesallied forth to battle, or minister to his wants when he returnedweary to the camp.But the heart of the Prince was full of war and conquest and he caredlittle for the faithful Ototachibana. From long exposure in traveling,and from care and grief at her lord's coldness to her, her beauty hadfaded, and her ivory skin was burnt brown by the sun, and the Princetold her one day that her place was in the Palace behind the screens athome and not with him upon the warpath. But in spite of rebuffs andindifference on her husband's part, Ototachibana could not find it inher heart to leave him. But perhaps it would have been better for herif she had done so, for on the way to Idzu, when they came to Owari,her heart was well nigh broken.Here dwelt in a Palace shaded by pine trees and approached by imposinggates, the Princess Miyadzu, beautiful as the cherry blossom in theblushing dawn of a spring morning. Her garments were dainty and bright,and her skin was white as snow, for she had never known what it was tobe weary along the path of duty or to walk in the heat of a summer'ssun. And the Prince was ashamed of his sunburnt wife in hertravel stained garments, and bade her remain behind while he went tovisit the Princess Miyadzu. Day after day he spent hours in the gardensand the Palace of his new friend, thinking only of his pleasure, andcaring little for his poor wife who remained behind to weep in the tentat the misery which had come into her life. Yet she was so faithful awife, and her character so patient, that she never allowed a reproachto escape her lips, or a frown to mar the sweet sadness of her face,and she was ever ready with a smile to welcome her husband back orusher him forth wherever he went.At last the day came when the Prince Yamato Take must depart for Idzuand cross over the sea to Kadzusa, and he bade his wife follow in hisretinue as an attendant while he went to take a ceremonious farewell ofthe Princess Miyadzu. She came out to greet him dressed in gorgeousrobes, and she seemed more beautiful than ever, and when Yamato Takesaw her he forgot his wife, his duty, and everything except the joy ofthe idle present, and swore that he would return to Owari and marry herwhen the war was over. And as he looked up when he had said these wordshe met the large almond eyes of Ototachibana fixed full upon him inunspeakable sadness and wonder, and he knew that he had done wrong, buthe hardened his heart and rode on, caring little for the pain he hadcaused her.When they reached the seashore at Idzu his men sought for boats inwhich to cross the straits to Kadzusa, but it was difficult to findboats enough to allow all the soldiers to embark. Then the Prince stoodon the beach, and in the pride of his strength he scoffed and said:"This is not the sea! This is only a brook! Why do you men want so manyboats? I could jump this if I would."When at last they had all embarked and were fairly on their way acrossthe straits, the sky suddenly clouded and a great storm arose. Thewaves rose mountains high, the wind howled, the lightning flashed andthe thunder rolled, and the boat which held Ototachibana and the Princeand his men was tossed from crest to crest of the rolling waves, tillit seemed that every moment must be their last and that they must allbe swallowed up in the angry sea. For Kin Jin, the Dragon King of theSea, had heard Yamato Take jeer, and had raised this terrible storm inanger, to show the scoffing Prince how awful the sea could be though itdid but look like a brook.The terrified crew lowered the sails and looked after the rudder, andworked for their dear lives' sake, but all in vain the storm onlyseemed to increase in violence, and all gave themselves up for lost.Then the faithful Ototachibana rose, and forgetting all the grief thather husband had caused her, forgetting even that he had wearied of her,in the one great desire of her love to save him, she determined tosacrifice her life to rescue him from death if it were possible.While the waves dashed over the ship and the wind whirled round them infury she stood up and said:"Surely all this has come because the Prince has angered Rin Jin, theGod of the Sea, by his jesting. If so, I, Ototachibana, will appeasethe wrath of the Sea God who desires nothing less than my husband'slife!"Then addressing the sea she said:"I will take the place of His Augustness, Yamato Take. I will now castmyself into your outraged depths, giving my life for his. Thereforehear me and bring him safely to the shore of Kadzusa."With these words she leaped quickly into the boisterous sea, and thewaves soon whirled her away and she was lost to sight. Strange to say,the storm ceased at once, and the sea became as calm and smooth as thematting on which the astonished onlookers were sitting. The gods of thesea were now appeased, and the weather cleared and the sun shone as ona summer's day.Yamato Take soon reached the opposite shore and landed safely, even ashis wife Ototachibana had prayed. His prowess in war was marvelous, andhe succeeded after some time in conquering the Eastern Barbarians, theAinu.He ascribed his safe landing wholly to the faithfulness of his wife,who had so willingly and lovingly sacrificed herself in the hour of hisutmost peril. His heart was softened at the remembrance of her, and henever allowed her to pass from his thoughts even for a moment. Too latehad he learned to esteem the goodness of her heart and the greatness ofher love for him.As he was returning on his homeward way he came to the high pass of theUsui Toge, and here he stood and gazed at the wonderful prospectbeneath him. The country, from this great elevation, all lay open tohis sight, a vast panorama of mountain and plain and forest, withrivers winding like silver ribbons through the land. then far off hesaw the distant sea, which shimmered like a luminous mist in the greatdistance, where Ototachibana had given her life for him, and as heturned towards it he stretched out his arms, and thinking of her lovewhich he had scorned and his faithlessness to her, his heart burst outinto a sorrowful and bitter cry:"Azuma, Azuma, Ya!" (Oh! my wife, my wife!) And to this day there is adistrict in Tokio called Azuma, which commemorates the words of PrinceYamato Take, and the place where his faithful wife leapt into the seato save him is still pointed out. So, though in life the PrincessOtotachibana was unhappy, history keeps her memory green, and the storyof her unselfishness and heroic death will never pass away.Yamato Take had now fulfilled all his father's orders, he had subduedall rebels, and rid the land of all robbers and enemies to the peace,and his renown was great, for in the whole land there was no one whocould stand up against him, he was so strong in battle and wise incouncil.He was about to return straight for home by the way he had come, whenthe thought struck him that he would find it more interesting to takeanother route, so he passed through the province of Owari and came tothe province of Omi.When the Prince reached Omi he found the people in a state of greatexcitement and fear. In many houses as he passed along he saw the signsof mourning and heard loud lamentations. On inquiring the cause of thishe was told that a terrible monster had appeared in the mountains, whodaily came down from thence and made raids on the villages, devouringwhoever he could seize. Many homes had been made desolate and the menwere afraid to go out to their daily work in the fields, or the womento go to the rivers to wash their rice.When Yamato Take heard this his wrath was kindled, and he said fiercely:"From the western end of Kiushiu to the eastern corner of Yezo I havesubdued all the King's enemies there is no one who dares to break thelaws or to rebel against the King. It is indeed a matter for wonderthat here in this place, so near the capital, a wicked monster hasdared to take up his abode and be the terror of the King's subjects.Not long shall it find pleasure in devouring innocent folk. I willstart out and kill it at once."With these words he set out for the Ibuki Mountain, where the monsterwas said to live. He climbed up a good distance, when all of a sudden,at a winding in the path, a monster serpent appeared before him andstopped the way."This must be the monster," said the Prince. "I do not need my swordfor a serpent. I can kill him with my hands."He thereupon sprang upon the serpent and tried to strangle it to deathwith his bare arms. It was not long before his prodigious strengthgained the mastery and the serpent lay dead at his feet. Now a suddendarkness came over the mountain and rain began to fall, so that for thegloom and the rain the Prince could hardly see which way to take. In ashort time, however, while he was groping his way down the pass, theweather cleared, and our brave hero was able to make his way quicklydown the mountain.When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in hisfeet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. So great was hissuffering that he could hardly move, much less walk, so he had himselfcarried to a place in the mountains famous for its hot mineral springs,which rose bubbling out of the earth, and almost boiling from thevolcanic fires beneath.Yamato Take bathed daily in these waters, and gradually he felt hisstrength come again, and the pains left him, till at last one day hefound with great joy that he was quite recovered. He now hastened tothe temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed beforeundertaking this long expedition. His aunt, priestess of the shrine,who had blessed him on his setting out, now came to welcome him back.He told her of the many dangers he had encountered and of howmarvelously his life had been preserved through all and she praisedhis courage and his warrior's prowess, and then putting on her mostmagnificent robes she returned thanks to their ancestress the SunGoddess Amaterasu, to whose protection they both ascribed the Prince'swonderful preservation.Here ends the story of Prince Yamato Take of Japan.