Once upon a time an old woman lived in a small cottage near the sea withher two daughters. They were very poor, and the girls seldom left thehouse, as they worked all day long making veils for the ladies to wearover their faces, and every morning, when the veils were finished, theother took them over the bridge and sold them in the city. Then shebought the food that they needed for the day, and returned home to doher share of veil making.One morning the old woman rose even earlier than usual, and set offfor the city with her wares. She was just crossing the bridge when,suddenly, she knocked up against a human head, which she had neverseen there before. The woman started back in horror. but what was hersurprise when the head spoke, exactly as if it had a body joined on toit.'Take me with you, good mother!' it said imploringly. 'take me with youback to your house.'At the sound of these words the poor woman nearly went mad with terror.Have that horrible thing always at home? Never! never! And she turnedand ran back as fast as she could, not knowing that the head wasjumping, dancing, and rolling after her. But when she reached her owndoor it bounded in before her, and stopped in front of the fire, beggingand praying to be allowed to stay.All that day there was no food in the house, for the veils had not beensold, and they had no money to buy anything with. So they all sat silentat their work, inwardly cursing the head which was the cause of theirmisfortunes.When evening came, and there was no sign of supper, the head spoke, forthe first time that day:'Good mother, does no one ever eat here? During all the hours I havespent in your house not a creature has touched anything.''No,' answered the old woman, 'we are not eating anything.''And why not, good mother?''Because we have no money to buy any food.''Is it your custom never to eat?''No, for every morning I go into the city to sell my veils, and with thefew shillings I get for them I buy all we want. To day I did not crossthe bridge, so of course I had nothing for food.''Then I am the cause of your having gone hungry all day?' asked thehead.'Yes, you are,' answered the old woman.'Well, then, I will give you money and plenty of it, if you will only doas I tell you. In an hour, as the clock strikes twelve, you must be onthe bridge at the place where you met me. When you get there call out"Ahmed," three times, as loud as you can. Then a negro will appear, andyou must say to him: "The head, your master, desires you to open thetrunk, and to give me the green purse which you will find in it."''Very well, my lord,' said the old woman, 'I will set off at once forthe bridge.' And wrapping her veil round her she went out.Midnight was striking as she reached the spot where she had met the headso many hours before.'Ahmed! Ahmed! Ahmed!' cried she, and immediately a huge negro, as tallas a giant, stood on the bridge before her.'What do you want?' asked he.'The head, your master, desires you to open the trunk, and to give methe green purse which you will find in it.''I will be back in a moment, good mother,' said he. And three minuteslater he placed a purse full of sequins in the old woman's hand.No one can imagine the joy of the whole family at the sight of all thiswealth. The tiny, tumble down cottage was rebuilt, the girls had newdresses, and their mother ceased selling veils. It was such a new thingto them to have money to spend, that they were not as careful as theymight have been, and by and by there was not a single coin left in thepurse. When this happened their hearts sank within them, and their facesfell.'Have you spent your fortune?' asked the head from its corner, when itsaw how sad they looked. 'Well, then, go at midnight, good mother, tothe bridge, and call out "Mahomet!" three times, as loud as you can. Anegro will appear in answer, and you must tell him to open the trunk,and to give you the red purse which he will find there.'The old woman did not need twice telling, but set off at once for thebridge.'Mahomet! Mahomet! Mahomet!' cried she, with all her might. and in aninstant a negro, still larger than the last, stood before her.'What do you want?' asked he.'The head, your master, bids you open the trunk, and to give me the redpurse which you will find in it.''Very well, good mother, I will do so,' answered the negro, and, themoment after he had vanished, he reappeared with the purse in his hand.This time the money seemed so endless that the old woman built herself anew house, and filled it with the most beautiful things that were tobe found in the shops. Her daughters were always wrapped in veils thatlooked as if they were woven out of sunbeams, and their dresses shonewith precious stones. The neighbours wondered where all this suddenwealth had sprung from, but nobody knew about the head.'Good mother,' said the head, one day, 'this morning you are to go tothe city and ask the sultan to give me his daughter for my bride.''Do what?' asked the old woman in amazement. 'How can I tell the sultanthat a head without a body wishes to become his son in law? They willthink that I am mad, and I shall be hooted from the palace and stoned bythe children.''Do as I bid you,' replied the head. 'it is my will.'The old woman was afraid to say anything more, and, putting on herrichest clothes, started for the palace. The sultan granted her anaudience at once, and, in a trembling voice, she made her request.'Are you mad, old woman?' said the sultan, staring at her.'The wooer is powerful, O Sultan, and nothing is impossible to him.''Is that true?''It is, O Sultan. I swear it,' answered she.'Then let him show his power by doing three things, and I will give himmy daughter.''Command, O gracious prince,' said she.'Do you see that hill in front of the palace?' asked the sultan.'I see it,' answered she.'Well, in forty days the man who has sent you must make that hillvanish, and plant a beautiful garden in its place. That is the firstthing. Now go, and tell him what I say.'So the old woman returned and told the head the sultan's firstcondition.'It is well,' he replied. and said no more about it.For thirty nine days the head remained in its favourite corner. The oldwoman thought that the task set before was beyond his powers, andthat no more would be heard about the sultan's daughter. But on thethirty ninth evening after her visit to the palace, the head suddenlyspoke.'Good mother,' he said, 'you must go to night to the bridge, and whenyou are there cry "Ali! Ali! Ali!" as loud as you can. A negro willappear before you, and you will tell him that he is to level the hill,and to make, in its place, the most beautiful garden that ever wasseen.''I will go at once,' answered she.It did not take her long to reach the bridge which led to the city, andshe took up her position on the spot where she had first seen the head,and called loudly 'Ali! Ali! Ali.' In an instant a negro appeared beforeher, of such a huge size that the old woman was half frightened. but hisvoice was mild and gentle as he said: 'What is it that you want?''Your master bids you level the hill that stands in front of thesultan's palace and in its place to make the most beautiful garden inthe world.''Tell my master he shall be obeyed,' replied Ali. 'it shall be done thismoment.' And the old woman went home and gave Ali's message to the head.Meanwhile the sultan was in his palace waiting till the fortieth dayshould dawn, and wondering that not one spadeful of earth should havebeen dug out of the hill.'If that old woman has been playing me a trick,' thought he, 'I willhang her! And I will put up a gallows to morrow on the hill itself.'But when to morrow came there was no hill, and when the sultan openedhis eyes he could not imagine why the room was so much lighter thanusual, and what was the reason of the sweet smell of flowers that filledthe air.'Can there be a fire?' he said to himself. 'the sun never came in atthis window before. I must get up and see.' So he rose and looked out,and underneath him flowers from every part of the world were blooming,and creepers of every colour hung in chains from tree to tree.Then he remembered. 'Certainly that old woman's son is a clevermagician!' cried he. 'I never met anyone as clever as that. What shall Igive him to do next? Let me think. Ah! I know.' And he sent for the oldwoman, who by the orders of the head, was waiting below.'Your son has carried out my wishes very nicely,' he said. 'The gardenis larger and better than that of any other king. But when I walk acrossit I shall need some place to rest on the other side. In forty dayshe must build me a palace, in which every room shall be filled withdifferent furniture from a different country, and each more magnificentthan any room that ever was seen.' And having said this he turned roundand went away.'Oh! he will never be able to do that,' thought she. 'it is much moredifficult than the hill.' And she walked home slowly, with her headbent.'Well, what am I to do next?' asked the head cheerfully. And the oldwoman told her story.'Dear me! is that all? why it is child's play,' answered the head. andtroubled no more about the palace for thirty nine days. Then he told theold woman to go to the bridge and call for Hassan.'What do you want, old woman?' asked Hassan, when he appeared, for hewas not as polite as the others had been.'Your master commands you to build the most magnificent palace that everwas seen,' replied she. 'and you are to place it on the borders of thenew garden.''He shall be obeyed,' answered Hassan. And when the sultan woke he saw,in the distance, a palace built of soft blue marble, resting on slenderpillars of pure gold.'That old woman's son is certainly all powerful,' cried he. 'what shallI bid him do now?' And after thinking some time he sent for the oldwoman, who was expecting the summons.'The garden is wonderful, and the palace the finest in the world,' saidhe, 'so fine, that my servants would cut but a sorry figure in it. Letyour son fill it with forty slaves whose beauty shall be unequalled, allexactly like each other, and of the same height.'This time the king thought he had invented something totally impossible,and was quite pleased with himself for his cleverness.Thirty nine days passed, and at midnight on the night of the last theold woman was standing on the bridge.'Bekir! Bekir! Bekir!' cried she. And a negro appeared, and inquiredwhat she wanted.'The head, your master, bids you find forty slaves of unequalled beauty,and of the same height, and place them in the sultan's palace on theother side of the garden.'And when, on the morning of the fortieth day, the sultan went to theblue palace, and was received by the forty slaves, he nearly lost hiswits from surprise.'I will assuredly give my daughter to the old woman's son,' thought he.'If I were to search all the world through I could never find a morepowerful son in law.'And when the old woman entered his presence he informed her that he wasready to fulfil his promise, and she was to bid her son appear at thepalace without delay.This command did not at all please the old woman, though, of course, shemade no objections to the sultan.'All has gone well so far,' she grumbled, when she told her story tothe head,' but what do you suppose the sultan will say, when he sees hisdaughter's husband?''Never mind what he says! Put me on a silver dish and carry me to thepalace.'So it was done, though the old woman's heart beat as she laid down thedish with the head upon it.At the sight before him the king flew into a violent rage.'I will never marry my daughter to such a monster,' he cried. But theprincess placed her head gently on his arm.'You have given your word, my father, and you cannot break it,' saidshe.'But, my child, it is impossible for you to marry such a being,'exclaimed the sultan.'Yes, I will marry him. He had a beautiful head, and I love himalready.'So the marriage was celebrated, and great feasts were held in thepalace, though the people wept tears to think of the sad fate of theirbeloved princess. But when the merry making was done, and the youngcouple were alone, the head suddenly disappeared, or, rather, a bodywas added to it, and one of the handsomest young men that ever was seenstood before the princess.'A wicked fairy enchanted me at my birth,' he said, 'and for the rest ofthe world I must always be a head only. But for you, and you only, I ama man like other men.''And that is all I care about,' said the princess..