My fifth brother, Al Nashshar, the Babbler, the same whowas cropped of both ears, O Commander of the Faithful, was anasker wont to beg of folk by night and live on their alms by day.Now when our father, who was an old man well stricken in yearssickened and died, he left us seven hundred dirhams whereof eachson took his hundred. but, as my fifth brother received hisportion, he was perplexed and knew not what to do with it. Whilein this uncertainty he bethought him to lay it out on glass wareof all sorts and turn an honest penny on its price. So he boughtan hundred dirhams worth of verroterie and, putting it into a bigtray, sat down to sell it on a bench at the foot of a wallagainst which he leant back. As he sat with the tray before himhe fell to musing and said to himself, "Know, O my good Self,that the head of my wealth, my principal invested in this glassware, is an hundred dirhams. I will assuredly sell it for twohundred with which I will forthright buy other glass and make byit four hundred. nor will I cease to sell and buy on this wise,till I have gotten four thousand and soon find myself the masterof much money. With these coins I will buy merchandise and jewelsand ottars and gain great profit on them. till, Allahwilling, I will make my capital an hundred thousand dirhams. ThenI will purchase a fine house with white slaves and eunuchs andhorses. and I will eat and drink and disport myself. nor will Ileave a singing man or a singing woman in the city, but I willsummon them to my palace and make them perform before me." Allthis he counted over in his mind, while the tray of glass ware,:worth an hundred dirhams, stood on the bench before him, and,after looking at it, he continued, "And when, Inshallah! mycapital shall have become one hundred thousand dinars, Iwill send out marriage brokeresses to require for me in wedlockthe daughters of Kings and Wazirs. and I will demand to wife theeldest daughter of the Prime Minister. for it hath reached methat she is perfect in beauty and prime in loveliness and rare inaccomplishments. I will give a marriage settlement of onethousand dinars. and, if her father consent, well: but if not Iwill take her by force from under his very nose. When she issafely homed in my house, I will buy ten little eunuchsand for myself a robe of the robes of Kings and Sultans. and getme a saddle of gold and a bridle set thick with gems of price.Then I will mount with the Mamelukes preceding me and surroundingme, and I will make the round of the city whilst the folk saluteme and bless me. after which I will repair to the Wazir (he thatis father of the girl) with armed white slaves before and behindme and on my right and on my left. When he sees me, the Wazirstands up, and seating me in his own place sits down much belowme. for that I am to be his son in law. Now I have with me twoeunuchs carrying purses, each containing a thousand dinars. andof these I deliver to him the thousand, his daughter's marriagesettlement, and make him a free gift of the other thousand, thathe may have reason to know my generosity and liberality and mygreatness of spirit and the littleness of the world in my eyes.And for ten words he addresses to me I answer him two. Then backI go to my house, and if one come to me on the bride's part, Imake him a present of money and throw on him a dress of honour.but if he bring me a gift, I give it back to him and refuse toaccept it, that they may learn what a proud spirit ismine which never condescends to derogate. Thus I establish myrank and status. When this is done I appoint her wedding nightand adorn my house showily! gloriously! And as the time forparading the bride is come, I don my finest attire and sit downon a mattress of gold brocade, propping up my elbow with apillow, and turning neither to the right nor to the left. butlooking only straight in front for the haughtiness of my mind andthe gravity of my understanding. And there before me stands mywife in her raiment and ornaments, lovely as the full moon. andI, in my loftiness and dread lordliness, will not glanceat her till those present say to me, 'O our lord and our master,thy wife, thy handmaid, standeth before thee. vouchsafe her onelook, for standing wearieth her.' Then they kiss the groundbefore me many times. whereupon I raise my eyes and cast at herone single glance and turn my face earthwards again. Then theybear her off to the bride chamber, and I arise and changemy clothes for a far finer suit. and, when they bring in thebride a second time, I deign not to throw her a look till theyhave begged me many times. after which I glance at her out of thecorner of one eye, and then bend down my head. I continue actingafter this fashion till the parading and displaying arecompleted" And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day andceased saying her per misted say.When It was the Thirty third Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that theBarber's fifth brother proceeded:   "Then I bend down my head andcontinue acting after this fashion till her parading anddisplaying are completed. Thereupon I order one of my eunuchs tobring me a bag of five hundred dinars which I give as largesse tothe tire women present and bid them one and all lead me to thebride chamber. When they leave me alone with her I neither lookat her nor speak to her, but lie by her side with my faceto the wall showing my contempt, that each and every may againremark how high and haughty I am. Presently her mother comes into me, and kissing my head and hand, says to me, 'O mylord, look upon thine handmaid who longs for thy favour. so healher broken spirit!' I give her no answer. and when she sees thisshe rises and busses my feet many times and says, 'O my lord, invery sooth my daughter is a beautiful maid, who hath never knownman. and if thou show her this backwardness and aversion, herheart will break. so do thou incline to her and speak to her andsoothe her mind and spirit.' Then she rises and fetches a cup ofwine. and says to her daughter, 'Take it and hand it to thylord.' But as e approaches me I leave her standing between myhands and sit, propping my elbow on a round cushion purfled withgold thread, leaning lazily back, and without looking at her inthe majesty of my spirit, so that she may deem me indeed a Sultanand a mighty man. Then she says to me, 'O my lord, Allah uponthee, do not refuse to take the cup from the hand of thine handmaid, for verily I am thy bondswoman.' But I do not speak to herand she presses me, saying, 'There is no help but that thou drinkit.' and she puts it to my lips. Then I shake my fist in her faceand kick her with my foot thus." So he let out with his toe anknocked over the tray of glass ware which fell to the ground and,falling from the bench, all that was on it was broken to bits. 'Ofoulest of pimps, this comes from the pride of myspirit'" cried my brother. and then, O Commander of the Faithful,he buffeted his face and rent his garments and kept on weepingand beating himself. The folk who were flocking to their Fridayprayers saw him. and some of them looked at him and pitied him,whilst others paid no heed to him, and in this way my bother lostboth capital and profit. He remained weeping a long while, and atlast up came a beautiful lady, the scent of musk exhaling fromher, who was going to Friday prayers riding a mule with a goldsaddle and followed by several eunuchs. When she saw the brokenglass and my brother weeping, her kind heart was moved to pityfor him, and she asked what ailed him and was told that he had atray full of glass ware by the sale of which he hoped to gain hisliving, but it was broken, and (said they), "there befell himwhat thou seest." Thereupon she called up one of her eunuchs andsaid to him, Give what thou hast with thee to this poor fellow!".And he gave my brother a purse in which he found five hundreddinars. and when it touched his hand he was well nigh dying forexcess of joy and he offered up blessings for her. Then hereturned to his abode a substantial man. and, as he satconsidering, some one rapped at the door. So he rose and openedand saw an old woman whom he had never seen. "O my son," saidshe, "know that prayer tide is near and I have not yet made myWuzu ablution. so kindly allow me the use of thy lodgingfor the purpose." My brother answered, "To hear is to comply."and going in bade her follow him. So she entered and he broughther an ewer wherewith to wash, and sat down like to fly with joybecause of the dinars which he had tied up in his belt for apurse. When the old woman had made an end of her ablution, shecame up to where he sat, and prayed a two bow prayer. after whichshe blessed my brother with a godly benediction, and he whilethanking her put his hand to the dinars and gave her two, sayingto himself "These are my voluntaries." When she saw thegold she cried, "Praise be to Allah! why dost thou look on onewho loveth thee as if she were a beggar? Take back thy money: Ihave no need of it. or, if thou want it not, return it to her whogave it thee when thy glass ware was broken. Moreover, if thouwish to be united with her, I can manage the matter, for she ismy mistress." "O my mother," asked my brother, "by what manner ofmeans can I get at her?". and she answered, "O my son! she hathan inclination for thee, but she is the wife of a wealthy man. sotake the whole of thy money with thee and follow me, that I mayguide thee to thy desire: and when thou art in her company spareneither persuasion nor fair words, but bring them all to bearupon her. so shalt thou enjoy her beauty and wealth to thyheart's content." My brother took all his gold and rose andfollowed the old woman, hardly believing in his luck. She ceasednot faring on, and my brother following her, till they came to atall gate at which she knocked and a Roumi slave girlcame out and opened to them. Then the old woman led my brotherinto a great sitting room spread with wondrous fine carpets andhung with curtains, where he sat down with his gold before him,and his turband on his knee. He had scarcely taken seatbefore there came to him a young lady (never eye saw fairer) cladin garments of the most sumptuous. whereupon my brother rose tohis feet, and she smiled in his face and welcomed him, signing tohim to be seated. Then she bade shut the door and, when it wasshut, she turned to my brother, and taking his hand conducted himto a private chamber furnished with various kinds of brocades andgold cloths. Here he sat down and she sat by his side and toyedwith him awhile. after which she rose and saying, "Stir not fromthy seat till I come back to thee." disappeared. Meanwhile as hewas on this wise, lo! there came in to him a black slave big ofbody and bulk and holding a drawn sword in hand, who said to him,"Woe to thee! Who brought thee hither and what dost thou wanthere?" My brother could not return him a reply, being tongue tiedfor terror. so the blackamoor seized him and stripped him of hisclothes and bashed him with the flat of his sword blade till hefell to the ground, swooning from excess of belabouring. The illomened nigger fancied that there was an end of him and my brotherheard him cry, "Where is the salt wench?" Where upon incame a handmaid holding in hand a large tray of salt, and theslave kept rubbing it into my brother's wounds. but hedid not stir fearing lest the slave might find out that he wasnot dead and kill him outright. Then the salt girl went away, andthe slave cried Where is the souterrain guardianess?"Hereupon in came the old woman and dragged my brother by his feetto a souterrain and threw him down upon a heap of dead bodies. Inthis place he lay two full days, but Allah made the salt themeans of preserving his life by staunching the blood and stayingits flow Presently, feeling himself able to move, Al Nashsharrose and opened the trap door in fear and trembling and crept outinto the open. and Allah protected him, so that he went on in thedarkness and hid himself in the vestibule till dawn, when he sawthe accursed beldam sally forth in quest of other quarry. Hefollowed in her wake without her knowing it, and made for his ownlodging where he dressed his wounds and medicined himself till hewas whole. Meanwhile he used to watch the old woman, tracking herat all times and seasons, and saw her accost one man afteranother and carry them to the house. However he uttered not aword. but, as soon as he waxed hale and hearty, he took a pieceof stuff and made it into a bag which he filled with broken glassand bound about his middle. He also disguised himself as aPersian that none might know him, and hid a sword under hisclothes of foreign cut. Then he went out and presently, fallingin with the old woman, said to her, speaking Arabic with aPersian accent, "Venerable lady, I am a stranger arrivedbut this day here where I know no one. Hast thou a pair of scaleswherein I may weigh eleven hundred dinars? I will give theesomewhat of them for thy pains." "I have a son, a money changer,who keepeth all kinds of scales," she answered, "so come with meto him before he goeth out and he will weigh thy gold." Mybrother answered "Lead the way!" She led him to the house and theyoung lady herself came out and opened it, whereupon the oldwoman smiled in her face and said, "I bring thee fat meattoday." Then the damsel took my brother by the hand, andled him to the same chamber as before. where she sat with himawhile then rose and went forth saying, "Stir not from thy seattill I come back to thee." Presently in came the accursed slavewith the drawn sword and cried to my brother, "Up and be damnedto thee." So he rose, and as the slave walked on before him hedrew the sword from under his clothes and smote him with it,making head fly from body. Then he dragged the corpse by the feetto the souterrain and called out, "Where is the salt wench?" Upcame the girl carrying the tray of salt and, seeing my brothersword in hand, turned to fly. but he followed her and struck offher head. Then he called out, "Where is the souterrainguardianess? , and in came the old woman to whom he said, "Dostknow me again, ill omened hag?" "No my lord," she replied, and hesaid, "I am the owner of the five hundred gold pieces, whosehouse thou enteredst to make the ablution and to pray, and whomthou didst snare hither and betray." "Fear Allah and spare me,"cried she. but he regarded her not and struck her with the swordtill he had cut her in four. Then he went to look for the younglady. and when she saw him her reason fled and she cried outpiteously "Aman! Mercy!" So he spared her and asked,"What made thee consort with this blackamoor?", and she answered,"I was slave to a certain merchant, and the old woman used tovisit me till I took a liking to her. One day she said to me, 'Wehave a marriage festival at our house the like of which was neverseen and I wish thee to enjoy the sight.' 'To hear is to obey,'answered I, and rising arrayed myself in my finest raiment andornaments, and took with me a purse containing an hundred goldpieces. Then she brought me hither and hardly had I entered thehouse when the black seized on me, and I have remained in thiscase three whole years through the perfidy of the accursedbeldam." Then my brother asked her, "Is there anything of his inthe house?". whereto she answered, "Great store of wealth, and ifthou art able to carry it away, do so and Allah give thee good ofit" My brother went with her and she opened to him sundry chestswherein were money bags, at which he was astounded. then she saidto him, "Go now and leave me here, and fetch men to remove themoney.", He went out and hired ten men, but when he returned hefound the door wide open, the damsel gone and nothing left butsome small matter of coin and the household stuffs. Bythis he knew that the girl had overreached him. so he opened thestore rooms and seized what was in them, together with the restof the money, leaving nothing in the house. He passed the nightrejoicing, but when morning dawned he found at the door sometwenty troopers who laid hands on him saying, "The Governor wantsthee!" My brother implored them hard to let him return to hishouse. and even offered them a large sum of money. but theyrefused and, binding him fast with cords, carried him off. On theway they met a friend of my brother who clung to his skirt andimplored his protection, begging him to stand by him and help todeliver him out of their hands. The man stopped, and asked themwhat was the matter, and they answered, "The Governor hathordered us to bring this fellow before him and, look ye, we aredoing so." My brother's friend urged them to release him, andoffered them five hundred dinars to let him go, saying, "When yereturn to the Governor tell him that you were unable to findhim." But they would not listen to his words and took my brother,dragging him along on his face, and set him before the Governorwho asked him, "Whence gottest thou these stuffs and monies?".and he answered, "I pray for mercy!" So the Governor gave him thekerchief of mercy. and he told him all that had befallenhim from first to last with the old woman and the flight of thedamsel. ending with, "Whatso I have taken, take of it what thouwilt, so thou leave me sufficient to support life." Butthe Governor took the whole of the stuffs and all the money forhimself. and, fearing lest the affair come to the Sultan's ears,he summoned my brother and said, "Depart from this city, else Iwill hang thee." "Hearing and obedience" quoth my brother and setout for another town. On the way thieves fell foul of him andstripped and beat him and docked his ears. but I heard tidings ofhis misfortunes and went out after him taking him clothes. andbrought him secretly into the city where I assigned to him anallowance for meat and drink. And presently the Caliph gave earto