There was once a queen that was left a widow with one daughter, who was asgood and handsome as any girl could be. But her mother wasn't satisfied toremain without a husband. so she married again, and a very bad choice shemade. Her second husband treated her very badly. and she died soon after.Well, would you ever think of the widower taking it into his head to marrythe young princess at the end of a year? She was as shocked as she couldbe when he made her the offer, and burst out a crying."I took you too sudden," said he. "Sleep on it, and you can give me ananswer tomorrow."She was in great trouble all the rest of the day, and when the eveningcame she went out into the paddock, where a beautiful filly she used toride was grazing. "Oh my poor beast! " said she, "I'm sure if you knew mytrouble you'd pity me.""I do know your trouble, and I pity you, and I'll help you too," says thefilly. "I'm the fairy that watched over you from the time you were born,and I am here near you since your mother married the second time. Yourstepfather is an enchanter, but he'll find me too strong for him. Don'tseem shocked when he'll ask your consent tomorrow, but say you must havefirst a dress of silk and silver thread that will fit into a walnut shell.He'll promise, and will be able to get it made too, but I'll bother hisspinner and his weaver long enough before he'll get it wove, and hisseamstress after that, before it's sewed."The princess done as she was bid, and the enchanter was in greatjoy. but he was kept in great trouble and anger for a full half yearbefore the dress was ready to go on the princess. At last it was fitted,and he asked her was she ready to be his wife."I'll tell you tomorrow," said she.So she went to consult her filly in the paddock. Well, the next day he putthe question to her again, and she said that she couldn't think ofmarrying anyone till she had another dress of silk and gold thread thatwould fit in a walnut shell."I wish you had mentioned itself and the silver dress together. Both couldhave been done at the same time. No matter. I'll get it done."Whatever trouble the spinner and the weaver and the seamstress hadwith the other dress, they had twice it with this. but at last it wastried on, and fitted like a glove."Well now," says Fear Dhorrach , "I hope you're satisfied, and won'tput off the wedding again.""Oh, you must forgive me," said she, "for my vanity." She was talking tothe filly the evening before. "I can't do without a dress of silk threadas thick as it can be with diamonds and pearls no larger than the head ofa minnikin pin. Three is a lucky number, you know.""Well, I wish you had mentioned this at first, and the three could bemaking together. Now this is the very last thing you'll ask, I expect.""Oh, I'll never ask another, you may depend, till I'm married."She didn't say till we're married.The dress came home at last. Well, the same evening she found on her bedanother made from bottom to top of cat skins, and this she put on. Sheput her three walnut shells in her pocket, and then stole out to thestable, where she found her filly with a bridle in her mouth, and thenicest side saddle ever you saw on her back. Away they went, and when thelight first appeared in the sky they were a hundred miles away.They stopped at the edge of a wood, and the princess was very glad to restherself on a bunch of dry grass at the foot of a tree. She wasn't a minutethere when she fell asleep. and soundly she did sleep, till she was wokeup by the blowing of bugles and the yelping of beagles. She jumped up in afright. There was no filly near her, but half a hundred spotted houndswere within forty perches of her, yelling out of them like vengeance.I needn't tell you she was frightened. She had hardly power to put onefoot past the other, and she'd be soon tore into giblets by the dogs onaccount of her dress, but a fine young hunter leaped over their heads, andthey all fell back when he shook his whip and shouted at them. So he cameto the princess, and there she was as wild looking as you please, with hercat skins hanging round her, and her face and hands and arms as brown as aberry, from a wash she put on herself before she left home. Well thatdidn't hinder her features from being handsome, and the prince wasastonished at her beauty and her color and her dress, when he found shewas a stranger, and alone in the world. He got off his horse, and walkedside by side with her to his palace, for he was the young king of thatcountry.He sent for his housekeeper when he came to the hall door, and bid heremploy the young girl about whatever she was fit for, and then set off tofollow the hounds again.Well, there was great tittering in the servants' hall among the maids ather color and her dress, and the ganders of footmen would like to bejoking with her, but she made no freedom with one or the other, and whenthe butler thought to give her a kiss, she gave him a light slap on thejaw that wouldn't kill a fly, but he felt as if a toothache was at him foreight and forty hours. By my word, the other buckeens did not give her anexcuse to raise her hand to them. Well, she was so silent and kept herselfto herself so much, that she was no favorite, and they gave her nothingbetter to do than help the scullery maid, and at night she had to put upwith a little box of a place under the stairs for a bedroom.The next day, when the prince returned from hunting, he sent word to thehousekeeper by the whipper in to let the new servant bring him up a basinand towel till he'd wash before dinner."Oh, ho!" says the cook, "there's an honor for Cat Skin. I'm here forforty years and never was asked to do such a thing. how grand we are!purshuin to all impedent people!"The princess didn't mind their jibes and their jeers. She took up thethings, and the prince delayed her ever so long with remarks andquestions, striving to get out of her what rank of life she was born in.As little as she said he guessed her to be a lady. I suppose it is as hardfor a lady or gentleman to pass for a vulgarian, as for one of us to actlike one of the quality.Well to be sure! all the cold and scornful noses that were in the bigkitchen before her. and it was, "Cat Skin, will you hand me this?Cat Skin, will you grease my shoes? Cat Skin, will you draw a jug of beerfor me?" And she done everything she was asked without a word or a sourlook.Next night the prince was at a ball about three miles away, and theprincess got leave from the housekeeper to go early to bed. Well, shecouldn't get herself to lie down. She was in a fever like. she threw offher outside dress, and she stepped out into the lawn to get a little freshair. There what did she behold but her dear filly under a tree. She ranover, and threw her arms round her neck, and kissed her face, and began tocry."No time for crying!" says the filly. "Take out the first walnut shell yougot."She did so, and opened it."Hold what's inside over your head," said the other, and in a moment thesilk and silver dress wrapped her round as if a dozen manty makerswere after spending an hour about it."Get on that stump," says the filly, "and jump into the side saddle."She did so, and in a few minutes they were at the hall door of the castlewhere the ball was. There she sprung from her saddle, and walked into thehall. Lights were in the hall and everywhere, and nothing could equal theglitter of the princess's robes and the accoutrements of her steed. It waslike the curling of a stream in the sun.You may believe that the quality were taken by surprise, when the princesswalked in among them as if they were the lords and ladies in her father'scourt. The young king came forward as he saw the rest were a little cowed,and bade her good evening and welcome. and they talked whatever way kingsand queens and princesses do, and he made her sit on his own seat ofhonor, and took a stool or a chair near her, and if he wasn't delightedand surprised, her features were so like the scullery maid's, leave ittill again.They had a fine supper and a dance, and the prince and she danced, andevery minute his love for her was increasing, but at last she said sheshould go. Every one was sorry, and the prince more than anyone, and hecame with her to the hall, and asked might he see her safe home. But sheshowed him her filly and excused herself.Said he, "I'll have my brown horse brought, and myself and my servantswill attend you.""Hand me up on my filly," says she, " first of all," and, be the laws, Idon't know how princes put princesses on horseback. Maybe one of theservants stoops his back, and the prince goes on one knee, and she stepsfirst on his knee and then on the servant's back, and then sits in thesaddle. Anyhow she was safe up, and she took the prince's hand, and bidhim good night, and the filly and herself were away like a flash oflightning in the dark night.Well, everything appeared dismal enough when he went back to where ahundred tongues were going hard and fast about the lady in the dazzlingdress.Next morning he bid his footman ask the girl in the cat skin to bring himhot water and a towel for him, to shave. She came in as modest andbackward as you please. but whenever the prince got a peep at her face,there were the beautiful eyes and nose and mouth of the lady in theglittering dress, but all as brown as a bit of bogwood. He thought to geta little talk out of her, but dickens a word would come out of her mouthbut yes or no .And when he asked her was she of high birth, she turned off the discourseand wouldn't say one thing or the other. and when he asked would she liketo put on nice clothes and be about his mother, she refused just as if heasked her to drown herself. So he found he could make nothing of her, andlet her go down stairs.There was another great ball in a week's time, and the very same thingtook place again. There was the princess, and the dress she had on was ofsilk and gold thread, and the darlintest little gold crown in the worldover her purty curling hair.If the prince was in love before, he was up to his eyes in it this time.but while they were going on with the nicest sweet talk, says she, "I'mafraid, prince, that you are in the habit of talking lovingly to everygirl you meet."Well, he was very eager to prove he was not."Then," said she, "a little bird belied you as I was coming through thewood. He said that you weren't above talking soft even to a young servantgirl with her skin as brown as a berry, and her dress no better thancat skin.''"I declare to you, princess," said he, "there is such a girl at home, andif her skin was as white as yours, and her dress the same, no eye couldsee a bit of differ between you.""Oh, thankee, prince!" says she, "for the compliment. it's time for me tobe going."Well, he thought to mollify her, but she curled her upper lip and cockedher nose, and wasn't long till she left, the way she did before. While shewas getting on her filly, he almost went down on his knees to her to makeit up.So at last she smiled, and said, "If I can make up my mind to forgive you,I'll come to the next ball without invitation."So she was away, and when they came under the tree in the lawn she tookthe upper hem of her dress in her fingers and it came off like a glove,and she made her way in at the hack door, and into her crib at thestair foot.The prince slept little that night, and in the morning he sent his footmanto ask the girl in the cat skins to bring up a needle and thread to sew abutton on his shirt sleeve. He watched her fingers, and saw they weresmall and of a lovely shape. and when one of them touched his wrist, itfelt as soft and delicate as silk.All he could say got nothing out of her only, "It wasn't a nice thing fora prince to speak in that way to a girl of low degree, and he boasting ofit after to princesses and great ladies."Well, how he did begin to deny anything so ungenteel, but the button wassewed, and she skipped away downstairs.The third night came, and she shook the dress of silk and pearls anddiamonds over her, and the nicest crown of the same on her head. As grandand beautiful as she was before, she was twice as grand now. and the lordsand ladies hardly dared to speak above their breaths, and the princethought he was in heaven. He asked her at last would she be his queen, andnot keep him in misery any longer, and she said she would, if she was surehe wouldn't ask Miss Cat Skin the same question next day.Oh, how he spoke, and how he promised! He asked leave to see her safehome, but she wouldn't agree."But don't be downcast," said she. "You will see me again sooner than youthink. and if you know me when you meet me next, we'll part no more."Just as she was sitting in her saddle, and the prince was holding herhand, he slipped a dawny limber ring of gold on one finger. It was sosmall and so nice to the touch he thought she wouldn't feel it."And now, my princess," says he to himself, "I think I'll know you when Imeet you."Next morning he sent again for the scullery girl, and she came and made acurtchy ."What does your majesty want me to do?" said she."Only to advise me which of these two suits of clothes would look best onme. I'm going to be married.""Ah, how could the likes of me be able to advise you? Is the rich dressedlady, that I heard the footmen talking about, to be your queen?""Yourself is as likely to be my wife as that young lady.""Then who is it?""Yourself, I tell you."" Myself! How can your majesty joke that way on a poor girl? They sayyou're promised to the lady of the three rich dresses.""I'm promised to no one but yourself. I asked you twice already to be myqueen. I ask you now the third time.""Yes, and maybe after all, you'll marry the lady of the dresses.""You promised you'd have me if I knew you the next time we'd meet. This isthe next time. If I don't know you, I know my ring on your fourth finger."She looked, and there it was sure enough. Maybe she didn't blush."Will your majesty step into the next room for a minute," said she, "andleave me by myself?"He did so, and when she opened the door for him again, there she was withthe brown stain off her face and hands, and her dazzling dress of silk andjewels on her.Wasn't he the happy prince, and she the happy princess? And weren't thenoisy servants lewd of themselves when they saw poor Cat Skin inher royal dress saying the words before the priest? They didn't put offtheir marriage, and there was the fairy now in the appearance of abeautiful woman. and if I was to tell you about the happy life they led,I'd only be tiring you.