It is now very long since there was seen in Jutland a man mean and lowly in his garments, riding on a little white horse, with stirrups made of wood. When any one asked him whence he came and whither he was directing his course, he was wont to answer: "From Vendsyssel over Himmelsyssel southwards."He foretold, and said of a stone in Mae: "A thorn shall grow through the fissure in the stone, and in the thorn a magpie shall build her nest, hatch her young, and afterwards fly away with them."And this came to pass as he had said. He further foretold that when the magpie was flown, there should be a great battle in Vendsyssel, and the greater part of the people perish. Afterwards the women should acquire the courage and heart of men and slay the enemy.But when he was asked what further should happen, he answered: "Let the end follow."In Aalborg he foretold something to the town magistrate, which did not particularly please him, and for which he caused him to be scourged. He then foretold again, that like as his blood was running down his back, so should the magistrate's blood run over the streets of Aalborg. And it happened as he had said. for in a quarrel which arose in the town, the townsmen slew the magistrate in the street.Of Haseriisaa, which at that time did not flow through Aalborg, he foretold that a time should come when it should run through the town. which also took place as he had predicted.Coming one day to Bolstrup, and having according to his custom taken up his quarters in a kiln, he rode the next day to the public assembly (Ting), where the judge of the district asked him: "How will it fare with me?" and got for answer: "Thou shalt die in a kiln."Nor did he fare better. for coming to poverty, he had at last no other place of shelter.Once when some boys scoffed at him, and one among them threw a cask stave after him, he said, that a stave should be the boy's death. and the same boy, some time after, fell from a tree and struck a stave into his body.Of alms he accepted only so much as he required for the moment, and thus traveled from place to place.