Far away on the other side of the world there lived, long ago, a lionand his younger brother, the wild cat, who were so fond of each otherthat they shared the same hut. The lion was much the bigger and strongerof the two indeed, he was much bigger and stronger than any of thebeasts that dwelt in the forest. and, besides, he could jump father andrun faster than all the rest. If strength and swiftness could gain him adinner he was sure never to be without one, but when it came to cunning,both the grizzly bear and the serpent could get the better of him, andhe was forced to call in the help of the wild cat.Now the young wild cat had a lovely golden ball, so beautiful that youcould hardly look at it except through a piece of smoked glass, and hekept it hidden in the thick fur muff that went round his neck. A verylarge old animal, since dead, had given it to him when he was hardlymore than a baby, and had told him never to part with it, for as long ashe kept it no harm could ever come near him.In general the wild cat did not need to use his ball, for the lion wasfond of hunting, and could kill all the food that they needed. but nowand then his life would have been in danger had it not been for thegolden ball.One day the two brothers started to hunt at daybreak, but as the catcould not run nearly as fast as the lion, he had quite a long start. Atleast he THOUGHT it was a long one, but in a very few bounds and springsthe lion reached his side.'There is a bear sitting on that tree,' he whispered softly. 'He is onlywaiting for us to pass, to drop down on my back.''Ah, you are so big that he does not see I am behind you,' answered thewild cat. And, touching the ball, he just said: 'Bear, die!' And thebear tumbled dead out of the tree, and rolled over just in front ofthem.For some time they trotted on without any adventures, till just as theywere about to cross a strip of long grass on the edge of the forest, thelion's quick ears detected a faint rustling noise.'That is a snake,' he cried, stopping short, for he was much more afraidof snakes than of bears.'Oh, it is all right,' answered the cat. 'Snake, die!' And the snakedied, and the two brothers skinned it. They then folded the skin up intoa very small parcel, and the cat tucked it into his mane, for snakes'skins can do all sorts of wonderful things, if you are lucky enough tohave one of them.All this time they had had no dinner, for the snake's flesh was notnice, and the lion did not like eating bear perhaps because he neverfelt sure that the bear was REALLY dead, and would not jump up alivewhen his enemy went near him. Most people are afraid of SOME thing, andbears and serpents were the only creatures that caused the lion's heartto tremble. So the two brothers set off again and soon reached the sideof a hill where some fine deer were grazing.'Kill one of those deer for your own dinner,' said the boy brother, 'butcatch me another alive. I want him.'The lion at once sprang towards them with a loud roar, but the deerbounded away, and they were all three soon lost to sight. The cat waitedfor a long while, but finding that the lion did not return, went back tothe house where they lived.It was quite dark when the lion came home, where his brother was sittingcurled up in one corner.'Did you catch the deer for me?' asked the boy brother, springing up.'Well, no,' replied the man brother. 'The fact is, that I did not get upto them till we had run half way across the world and left the windfar behind us. Think what a trouble it would have been to drag it here!So I just ate them both.'The cat said nothing, but he did not feel that he loved his big brother.He had thought a great deal about that deer, and had meant to get on hisback to ride him as a horse, and go to see all the wonderful placesthe lion talked to him about when he was in a good temper. The more hethought of it the more sulky he grew, and in the morning, when the lionsaid that it was time for them to start to hunt, the cat told him thathe might kill the bear and snake by himself, as HE had a headache, andwould rather stay at home. The little fellow knew quite well that thelion would not dare to go out without him and his ball for fear ofmeeting a bear or a snake.The quarrel went on, and for many days neither of the brothers spoke toeach other, and what made them still more cross was, that they could getvery little to eat, and we know that people are often cross when theyare hungry. At last it occurred to the lion that if he could only stealthe magic ball he could kill bears and snakes for himself, and then thecat might be as sulky as he liked for anything that it would matter.But how was the stealing to be done? The cat had the ball hung round hisneck day and night, and he was such a light sleeper that it was uselessto think of taking it while he slept. No! the only thing was to get himto lend it of his own accord, and after some days the lion (who was notat all clever) hit upon a plan that he thought would do.'Dear me, how dull it is here!' said the lion one afternoon, when therain was pouring down in such torrents that, however sharp your eyes oryour nose might be, you could not spy a single bird or beast among thebushes. 'Dear me, how dull, how dreadfully dull I am. Couldn't we have agame of catch with that golden ball of yours?''I don't care about playing catch, it does not amuse me,' answeredthe cat, who was as cross as ever. for no cat, even to this day, everforgets an injury done to him.'Well, then, lend me the ball for a little, and I will play by myself,'replied the lion, stretching out a paw as he spoke.'You can't play in the rain, and if you did, you would only lose it inthe bushes,' said the cat.'Oh, no, I won't. I will play in here. Don't be so ill natured.' Andwith a very bad grace the cat untied the string and threw the goldenball into the lion's lap, and composed himself to sleep again.For a long while the lion tossed it up and down gaily, feeling that,however sound asleep the boy brother might LOOK, he was sure to have oneeye open. but gradually he began to edge closer to the opening, and atlast gave such a toss that the ball went up high into the air, and hecould not see what became of it.'Oh, how stupid of me!' he cried, as the cat sprang up angrily, 'let usgo at once and search for it. It can't really have fallen very far.'But though they searched that day and the next, and the next after that,they never found it, because it never came down.After the loss of his ball the cat refused to live with the lion anylonger, but wandered away to the north, always hoping he might meetwith his ball again. But months passed, and years passed, and though hetravelled over hundreds of miles, he never saw any traces of it.At length, when he was getting quite old, he came to a place unlike anythat he had ever seen before, where a big river rolled right to the footof some high mountains. The ground all about the river bank was dampand marshy, and as no cat likes to wet its feet, this one climbed atree that rose high above the water, and thought sadly of his lost ball,which would have helped him out of this horrible place. Suddenly he sawa beautiful ball, for all the world like his own, dangling from a branchof the tree he was on. He longed to get at it. but was the branch strongenough to bear his weight? It was no use, after all he had done, gettingdrowned in the water. However, it could do no harm, if he was to go alittle way. he could always manage to get back somehow.So he stretched himself at full length upon the branch, and wriggled hisbody cautiously along. To his delight it seemed thick and stout. Anothermovement, and, by stretching out his paw, he would be able to draw thestring towards him, when the branch gave a loud crack, and the cat madehaste to wriggle himself back the way he had come.But when cats make up their minds to do anything they generally DO it.and this cat began to look about to see if there was really no way ofgetting at his ball. Yes! there was, and it was much surer than theother, though rather more difficult. Above the bough where the ball washung was another bough much thicker, which he knew could not break withhis weight. and by holding on tight to this with all his four paws, hecould just manage to touch the ball with his tail. He would thus be ableto whisk the ball to and fro till, by and by, the string would becomequite loose, and it would fall to the ground. It might take some time,but the lion's little brother was patient, like most cats.Well, it all happened just as the cat intended it should, and when theball dropped on the ground the cat ran down the tree like lightning,and, picking it up, tucked it away in the snake's skin round his neck.Then he began jumping along the shore of the Big Water from one place toanother, trying to find a boat, or even a log of wood, that would takehim across. But there was nothing. only, on the other side, he saw twogirls cooking, and though he shouted to them at the top of his voice,they were too far off to hear what he said. And, what was worse, theball suddenly fell out of its snake's skin bag right into the river.Now, it is not at all an uncommon thing for balls to tumble into rivers,but in that case they generally either fall to the bottom and staythere, or else bob about on the top of the water close to where theyfirst touched it. But this ball, instead of doing either of thesethings, went straight across to the other side, and there one of thegirls saw it when she stooped to dip some water into her pail.'Oh! what a lovely ball!' cried she, and tried to catch it in her pail.but the ball always kept bobbing just out of her reach.'Come and help me!' she called to her sister, and after a long whilethey had the ball safe inside the pail. They were delighted with theirnew toy, and one or the other held it in her hand till bedtime came, andthen it was a long time before they could make up their minds where itwould be safest for the night. At last they locked it in a cupboard inone corner of their room, and as there was no hole anywhere the ballcould not possibly get out. After that they went to sleep.In the morning the first thing they both did was to run to the cupboardand unlock it, but when the door opened they started back, for, insteadof the ball, there stood a handsome young man.'Ladies,' he said, 'how can I thank you for what you have done for me?Long, long ago, I was enchanted by a wicked fairy, and condemned to keepthe shape of a ball till I should meet with two maidens, who would takeme to their own home. But where was I to meet them? For hundreds ofyears I have lived in the depths of the forest, where nothing but wildbeasts ever came, and it was only when the lion threw me into the skythat I was able to fall to earth near this river. Where there is ariver, sooner or later people will come. so, hanging myself on a tree, Iwatched and waited. For a moment I lost heart when I fell once more intothe hands of my old master the wild cat, but my hopes rose again as Isaw he was making for the river bank opposite where you were standing.That was my chance, and I took it. And now, ladies, I have only to saythat, if ever I can do anything to help you, go to the top of that highmountain and knock three times at the iron door at the north side, and Iwill come to you.'So, with a low bow, he vanished from before them, leaving the maidensweeping at having lost in one moment both the ball and the prince.