better, are persuaded that the seals, or silkies, as they call them, candoff their coverings at times, and disport themselves as men andwomen. A fisher once turning a ridge of rock, discovered a beautifulbit of green turf adjoining the shingle, sheltered by rocks on thelandwardside, and over this turf and shingle two beautiful women chasing eachother. Just at the man's feet lay two sealskins, one of which he took upto examine it. The women, catching sight of him, screamed out, and ran toget possession of the skins. One seized the article on the ground, donnedit in a thrice, and plunged into the sea. the other wrung her hands,cried, and begged the fisher to restore her property. but he wanted awife,and would not throw away the chance. He wooed her so earnestly andlovingly, that she put on some woman's clothing which he brought her fromhis cottage, followed him home, and became his wife. Some yearslater, when their home was enlivened by the presence of two children, thehusband, awakening one night, heard voices in conversation from thekitchen. Stealing softly to the room door, he heard his wife talking in alow tone with someone outside the window. The interview was just at anend,and he had only time to ensconce himself in bed, when his wife wasstealingacross the room. He was greatly disturbed, but determined to do or saynothing till he should acquire further knowledge. Next evening, ashewas returning home by the strand, he spied a male and female phocasprawling on a rock a few yards out at sea. The rougher animal,raising himself on his tail and fins, thus addressed the astonished man inthe dialect spoken in these islands, "You deprived me of her whom I was tomake my companion. and it was only yesternight that I discovered her outergarment, the loss of which obliged her to be your wife. I bear no malice,as you were kind to her in your own fashion. besides, my heart is too fullof joy to hold any malice. Look on your wife for the last time." Theother seal glanced at him with all the shyness and sorrow she could forceinto her now uncouth features. but when the bereaved husband rushed towardthe rock to secure his lost treasure, she and her companion were in thewater on the other side of it in a moment, and the poor fishermanwas obliged to return sadly to his motherless children and desolatehome.