Peronnik was a poor idiot who belonged to nobody, and he would have diedof starvation if it had not been for the kindness of the village people,who gave him food whenever he chose to ask for it. And as for a bed,when night came, and he grew sleepy, he looked about for a heap ofstraw, and making a hole in it, crept in, like a lizard. Idiot though hewas, he was never unhappy, but always thanked gratefully those who fedhim, and sometimes would stop for a little and sing to them. For hecould imitate a lark so well, that no one knew which was Peronnik andwhich was the bird.He had been wandering in a forest one day for several hours, and whenevening approached, he suddenly felt very hungry. Luckily, just atthat place the trees grew thinner, and he could see a small farmhousea little way off. Peronnik went straight towards it, and found thefarmer's wife standing at the door holding in her hands the large bowlout of which her children had eaten their supper.'I am hungry, will you give me something to eat?' asked the boy.'If you can find anything here, you are welcome to it,' answered she,and, indeed, there was not much left, as everybody's spoon had dippedin. But Peronnik ate what was there with a hearty appetite, and thoughtthat he had never tasted better food.'It is made of the finest flour and mixed with the richest milk andstirred by the best cook in all the countryside,' and though he said itto himself, the woman heard him.'Poor innocent,' she murmured, 'he does not know what he is saying, butI will cut him a slice of that new wheaten loaf,' and so she did, andPeronnik ate up every crumb, and declared that nobody less than thebishop's baker could have baked it. This flattered the farmer's wifeso much that she gave him some butter to spread on it, and Peronnik wasstill eating it on the doorstep when an armed knight rode up.'Can you tell me the way to the castle of Kerglas?' asked he.'To Kerglas? are you really going to Kerglas?' cried the woman, turningpale.'Yes. and in order to get there I have come from a country so far offthat it has taken me three months' hard riding to travel as far asthis.''And why do you want to go to Kerglas?' said she.'I am seeking the basin of gold and the lance of diamonds which are inthe castle,' he answered. Then Peronnik looked up.'The basin and the lance are very costly things,' he said suddenly.'More costly and precious than all the crowns in the world,' replied thestranger, 'for not only will the basin furnish you with the best foodthat you can dream of, but if you drink of it, it will cure you of anyillness however dangerous, and will even bring the dead back to life, ifit touches their mouths. As to the diamond lance, that will cut throughany stone or metal.''And to whom do these wonders belong?' asked Peronnik in amazement.'To a magician named Rogear who lives in the castle,' answered thewoman. 'Every day he passes along here, mounted on a black mare, witha colt thirteen months old trotting behind. But no one dares to attackhim, as he always carries his lance.''That is true,' said the knight, 'but there is a spell laid upon himwhich forbids his using it within the castle of Kerglas. The moment heenters, the basin and lance are put away in a dark cellar which nokey but one can open. And that is the place where I wish to fight themagician.''You will never overcome him, Sir Knight,' replied the woman, shakingher head. 'More than a hundred gentlemen have ridden past this housebent on the same errand, and not one has ever come back.''I know that, good woman,' returned the knight, 'but then they did nothave, like me, instructions from the hermit of Blavet.''And what did the hermit tell you?' asked Peronnik.'He told me that I should have to pass through a wood full of all sortsof enchantments and voices, which would try to frighten me and make melose my way. Most of those who have gone before me have wandered theyknow not where, and perished from cold, hunger, or fatigue.''Well, suppose you get through safely?' said the idiot.'If I do,' continued the knight, 'I shall then meet a sort of fairyarmed with a needle of fire which burns to ashes all it touches. Thisdwarf stands guarding an apple tree, from which I am bound to pluck anapple.''And next?' inquired Peronnik.'Next I shall find the flower that laughs, protected by a lion whosemane is formed of vipers. I must pluck that flower, and go on to thelake of the dragons and fight the black man who holds in his hand theiron ball which never misses its mark and returns of its own accord toits master. After that, I enter the valley of pleasure, where some whoconquered all the other obstacles have left their bones. If I can winthrough this, I shall reach a river with only one ford, where a ladyin black will be seated. She will mount my horse behind me, and tell mewhat I am to do next.'He paused, and the woman shook her head.'You will never be able to do all that,' said she, but he bade herremembered that these were only matters for men, and galloped away downthe path she pointed out.The farmer's wife sighed and, giving Peronnik some more food, bade himgood night. The idiot rose and was opening the gate which led into theforest when the farmer himself came up.'I want a boy to tend my cattle,' he said abruptly, 'as the one I hadhas run away. Will you stay and do it?' and Peronnik, though he lovedhis liberty and hated work, recollected the good food he had eaten, andagreed to stop.At sunrise he collected his herd carefully and led them to the richpasture which lay along the borders of the forest, cutting himself ahazel wand with which to keep them in order.His task was not quite so easy as it looked, for the cows had a way ofstraying into the wood, and by the time he had brought one back anotherwas off. He had gone some distance into the trees, after a naughty blackcow which gave him more trouble than all the rest, when he heard thenoise of horse's feet, and peeping through the leaves he beheld thegiant Rogear seated on his mare, with the colt trotting behind. Roundthe giant's neck hung the golden bowl suspended from a chain, and in hishand he grasped the diamond lance, which gleamed like fire. But as soonas he was out of sight the idiot sought in vain for traces of the pathhe had taken.This happened not only once but many times, till Peronnik grew so usedto him that he never troubled to hide. But on each occasion he saw himthe desire to possess the bowl and the lance became stronger.One evening the boy was sitting alone on the edge of the forest, when aman with a white beard stopped beside him. 'Do you want to know the wayto Kerglas?' asked the idiot, and the man answered 'I know it well.''You have been there without being killed by the magician?' criedPeronnik.'Oh! he had nothing to fear from me,' replied the white bearded man, 'Iam Rogear's elder brother, the wizard Bryak. When I wish to visit him Ialways pass this way, and as even I cannot go through the enchanted woodwithout losing myself, I call the colt to guide me.' Stooping down as hespoke he traced three circles on the ground and murmured some words verylow, which Peronnik could not hear. Then he added aloud:Colt, free to run and free to eat.Colt, gallop fast until we meet,and instantly the colt appeared, frisking and jumping to the wizard, whothrew a halter over his neck and leapt on his back.Peronnik kept silence at the farm about this adventure, but heunderstood very well that if he was ever to get to Kerglas he must firstcatch the colt which knew the way. Unhappily he had not heard the magicwords uttered by the wizard, and he could not manage to draw the threecircles, so if he was to summon the colt at all he must invent someother means of doing it.All day long, while he was herding the cows, he thought and thought howhe was to call the colt, for he felt sure that once on its back he couldovercome the other dangers. Meantime he must be ready in case a chanceshould come, and he made his preparations at night, when everyone wasasleep. Remembering what he had seen the wizard do, he patched up anold halter that was hanging in a corner of the stable, twisted a ropeof hemp to catch the colt's feet, and a net such as is used for snaringbirds. Next he sewed roughly together some bits of cloth to serve as apocket, and this he filled with glue and lark's feathers, a string ofbeads, a whistle of elder wood, and a slice of bread rubbed over withbacon fat. Then he went out to the path down which Rogear, his mare, andthe colt always rode, and crumbled the bread on one side of it.Punctual to their hour all three appeared, eagerly watched by Peronnik,who lay hid in the bushes close by. Suppose it was useless. suppose themare, and not the colt, ate the crumbs? Suppose but no! the mare andher rider went safely by, vanishing round a corner, while the colt,trotting along with its head on the ground, smelt the bread, and begangreedily to lick up the pieces. Oh, how good it was! Why had no one evergiven it that before, and so absorbed was the little beast, sniffingabout after a few more crumbs, that it never heard Peronnik creep uptill it felt the halter on its neck and the rope round its feet, and inanother moment some one on its back.Going as fast as the hobbles would allow, the colt turned into one ofthe wildest parts of the forest, while its rider sat trembling at thestrange sights he saw. Sometimes the earth seemed to open in front ofthem and he was looking into a bottomless pit. sometimes the trees burstinto flames and he found himself in the midst of a fire. often in theact of crossing a stream the water rose and threatened to sweep himaway. and again, at the foot of a mountain, great rocks would rolltowards him, as if they would crush him and his colt beneath theirweight. To his dying day Peronnik never knew whether these things werereal or if he only imagined them, but he pulled down his knitted cap soas to cover his eyes, and trusted the colt to carry him down the rightroad.At last the forest was left behind, and they came out on a wide plainwhere the air blew fresh and strong. The idiot ventured to peep out, andfound to his relief that the enchantments seemed to have ended, thougha thrill of horror shot through him as he noticed the skeletons of menscattered over the plain, beside the skeletons of their horses. And whatwere those grey forms trotting away in the distance? Were they couldthey be wolves?But vast through the plain seemed, it did not take long to cross, andvery soon the colt entered a sort of shady park in which was standing asingle apple tree, its branches bowed down to the ground with the weightof its fruit. In front was the korigan the little fairy man holding inhis hand the fiery sword, which reduced to ashes everything it touched.At the sight of Peronnik he uttered a piercing scream, and raised hissword, but without appearing surprised the youth only lifted his cap,though he took care to remain at a little distance.'Do not be alarmed, my prince,' said Peronnik, 'I am just on my way toKerglas, as the noble Rogear has begged me to come to him on business.''Begged you to come!' repeated the dwarf, 'and who, then, are you?''I am the new servant he has engaged, as you know very well,' answeredPeronnik.'I do not know at all,' rejoined the korigan sulkily, 'and you may be arobber for all I can tell.''I am so sorry,' replied Peronnik, 'but I may be wrong in calling myselfa servant, for I am only a bird catcher. But do not delay me, I pray,for his highness the magician expects me, and, as you see, has lent mehis colt so that I may reach the castle all the quicker.'At these words the korigan cast his eyes for the first time on the colt,which he knew to be the one belonging to the magician, and began tothink that the young man was speaking the truth. After examining thehorse, he studied the rider, who had such an innocent, and indeedvacant, air that he appeared incapable of inventing a story. Still, thedwarf did not feel quite sure that all was right, and asked what themagician wanted with a bird catcher.'From what he says, he wants one very badly,' replied Peronnik, 'as hedeclares that all his grain and all the fruit in his garden at Kerglasare eaten up by the birds.''And how are you going to stop that, my fine fellow?' inquired thekorigan. and Peronnik showed him the snare he had prepared, and remarkedthat no bird could possible escape from it.'That is just what I should like to be sure of,' answered the korigan.'My apples are completely eaten up by blackbirds and thrushes. Lay yoursnare, and if you can manage to catch them, I will let you pass.''That is a fair bargain,' and as he spoke Peronnik jumped down andfastened his colt to a tree. then, stopping, he fixed one end of the netto the trunk of the apple tree, and called to the korigan to hold theother while he took out the pegs. The dwarf did as he was bid, whensuddenly Peronnik threw the noose over his neck and drew it close, andthe korigan was held as fast as any of the birds he wished to snare.Shrieking with rage, he tried to undo the cord, but he only pulled theknot tighter. He had put down the sword on the grass, and Peronnik hadbeen careful to fix the net on the other side of the tree, so that itwas now easy for him to pluck an apple and to mount his horse, withoutbeing hindered by the dwarf, whom he left to his fate.When they had left the plain behind them, Peronnik and his steed foundthemselves in a narrow valley in which was a grove of trees, full ofall sorts of sweet smelling things roses of every colour, yellow broom,pink honeysuckle while above them all towered a wonderful scarlet pansywhose face bore a strange expression. This was the flower that laughs,and no one who looked at it could help laughing too. Peronnik's heartbeat high at the thought that he had reached safely the second trial,and he gazed quite calmly at the lion with the mane of vipers twistingand twirling, who walked up and down in front of the grove.The young man pulled up and removed his cap, for, idiot though he was,he knew that when you have to do with people greater than yourself, acap is more useful in the hand than on the head. Then, after wishing allkinds of good fortune to the lion and his family, he inquired if he wason the right road to Kerglas.'And what is your business at Kerglas?' asked the lion with a growl, andshowing his teeth.'With all respect,' answered Peronnik, pretending to be very frightened,'I am the servant of a lady who is a friend of the noble Rogear andsends him some larks for a pasty.''Larks?' cried the lion, licking his long whiskers. 'Why, it must be acentury since I have had any! Have you a large quantity with you?''As many as this bag will hold,' replied Peronnik, opening, as he spoke,the bag which he had filled with feathers and glue. and to prove what hesaid, he turned his back on the lion and began to imitate the song of alark.'Come,' exclaimed the lion, whose mouth watered, 'show me the birds! Ishould like to see if they are fat enough for my master.''I would do it with pleasure,' answered the idiot, 'but if I once openthe bag they will all fly away.''Well, open it wide enough for me to look in,' said the lion, drawing alittle nearer.Now this was just what Peronnik had been hoping for, so he held the bagwhile the lion opened it carefully and put his head right inside, sothat he might get a good mouthful of larks. But the mass of feathers andglue stuck to him, and before he could pull his head out again Peronnikhad drawn tight the cord, and tied it in a knot that no man could untie.Then, quickly gathering the flower that laughs, he rode off as fast asthe colt could take him.The path soon led to the lake of the dragons, which he had to swimacross. The colt, who was accustomed to it, plunged into the waterwithout hesitation. but as soon as the dragons caught sight of Peronnikthey approached from all parts of the lake in order to devour him.This time Peronnik did not trouble to take off his cap, but he threw thebeads he carried with him into the water, as you throw black corn to aduck, and with each bead that he swallowed a dragon turned on his backand died, so that the idiot reached the other side without furthertrouble.The valley guarded by the black man now lay before him, and from afarPeronnik beheld him, chained by one foot to a rock at the entrance, andholding the iron ball which never missed its mark and always returnedto its master's hand. In his head the black man had six eyes that werenever all shut at once, but kept watch one after the other. At thismoment they were all open, and Peronnik knew well that if the blackman caught a glimpse of him he would cast his ball. So, hiding the coltbehind a thicket of bushes, he crawled along a ditch and crouched closeto the very rock to which the black man was chained.The day was hot, and after a while the man began to grow sleepy. Two ofhis eyes closed, and Peronnik sang gently. In a moment a third eye shut,and Peronnik sang on. The lid of a fourth eye dropped heavily, and thenthose of the fifth and the sixth. The black man was asleep altogether.Then, on tiptoe, the idiot crept back to the colt which he led over softmoss past the black man into the vale of pleasure, a delicious gardenfull of fruits that dangled before your mouth, fountains running withwine, and flowers chanting in soft little voices. Further on, tableswere spread with food, and girls dancing on the grass called to him tojoin them.Peronnik heard, and, scarcely knowing what he did drew the colt into aslower pace. He sniffed greedily the smell of the dishes, and raised hishead the better to see the dancers. Another instant and he would havestopped altogether and been lost, like others before him, when suddenlythere came to him like a vision the golden bowl and the diamond lance.Drawing his whistle from his pocket, he blew it loudly, so as to drownthe sweet sounds about him, and ate what was left of his bread and baconto still the craving of the magic fruits. His eyes he fixed steadily onthe ears of the colt, that he might not see the dancers.In this way he was able to reach the end of the garden, and at lengthperceived the castle of Kerglas, with the river between them which hadonly one ford. Would the lady be there, as the old man had told him?Yes, surely that was she, sitting on a rock, in a black satin dress, andher face the colour of a Moorish woman's. The idiot rode up, and tookoff his cap more politely than ever, and asked if she did not wish tocross the river.'I was waiting for you to help me do so,' answered she. 'Come near, thatI may get up behind you.'Peronnik did as she bade him, and by the help of his arm she jumpednimbly on to the back of the colt.'Do you know how to kill the magician?' asked the lady, as they werecrossing the ford.'I thought that, being a magician, he was immortal, and that no onecould kill him,' replied Peronnik.'Persuade him to taste that apple, and he will die, and if that is notenough I will touch him with my finger, for I am the plague,' answeredshe.'But if I kill him, how am I to get the golden bowl and the diamondlance that are hidden in the cellar without a key?' rejoined Peronnik.'The flower that laughs opens all doors and lightens all darkness,' saidthe lady. and as she spoke, they reached the further bank, and advancedtowards the castle.In front of the entrance was a sort of tent supported on poles, andunder it the giant was sitting, basking in the sun. As soon as henoticed the colt bearing Peronnik and the lady, he lifted his head, andcried in a voice of thunder:'Why, it is surely the idiot, riding my colt thirteen months old!''Greatest of magicians, you are right,' answered Peronnik.'And how did you manage to catch him?' asked the giant.'By repeating what I learnt from your brother Bryak on the edge of theforest,' replied the idiot. 'I just said Colt, free to run and free to eat,Colt, gallop fast until we meet,and it came directly.''You know my brother, then?' inquired the giant. 'Tell me why he sentyou here.''To bring you two gifts which he has just received from the country ofthe Moors,' answered Peronnik: 'the apple of delight and the woman ofsubmission. If you eat the apple you will not desire anything else, andif you take the woman as your servant you will never wish for another.''Well, give me the apple, and bid the woman get down,' answered Rogear.The idiot obeyed, but at the first taste of the apple the giantstaggered, and as the long yellow finger of the woman touched him hefell dead.Leaving the magician where he lay, Peronnik entered the palace, bearingwith him the flower that laughs. Fifty doors flew open before him, andat length he reached a long flight of steps which seemed to lead intothe bowels of the earth. Down these he went till he came to a silverdoor without a bar or key. Then he held up high the flower that laughs,and the door slowly swung back, displaying a deep cavern, which was asbright as the day from the shining of the golden bowl and the diamondlance. The idiot hastily ran forward and hung the bowl round his neckfrom the chain which was attached to it, and took the lance in his hand.As he did so, the ground shook beneath him, and with an awful rumblingthe palace disappeared, and Peronnik found himself standing close to theforest where he led the cattle to graze.Though darkness was coming on, Peronnik never thought of enteringthe farm, but followed the road which led to the court of the dukeof Brittany. As he passed through the town of Vannes he stopped at atailor's shop, and bought a beautiful costume of brown velvet and awhite horse, which he paid for with a handful of gold that he had pickedup in the corridor of the castle of Kerglas. Thus he made his way to thecity of Nantes, which at that moment was besieged by the French.A little way off, Peronnik stopped and looked about him. For miles roundthe country was bare, for the enemy had cut down every tree and burntevery blade of corn. and, idiot though he might be, Peronnik was ableto grasp that inside the gates men were dying of famine. He was stillgazing with horror, when a trumpeter appeared on the walls, and, afterblowing a loud blast, announced that the duke would adopt as his heirthe man who could drive the French out of the country.On the four sides of the city the trumpeter blew his blast, and the lasttime Peronnik, who had ridden up as close as he might, answered him.'You need blow no more,' said he, 'for I myself will free the town fromher enemies.' And turning to a soldier who came running up, waving hissword, he touched him with the magic lance, and he fell dead on thespot. The men who were following stood still, amazed. Their comrade'sarmour had not been pierced, of that they were sure, yet he was dead, asif he had been struck to the heart. But before they had time to recoverfrom their astonishment, Peronnik cried out:'You see how my foes will fare. now behold what I can do for myfriends,' and, stooping down, he laid the golden bowl against the mouthof the soldier, who sat up as well as ever. Then, jumping his horseacross the trench, he entered the gate of the city, which had openedwide enough to receive him.The news of these marvels quickly spread through the town, and put freshspirit into the garrison, so that they declared themselves able to fightunder the command of the young stranger. And as the bowl restored allthe dead Bretons to life, Peronnik soon had an army large enough todrive away the French, and fulfilled his promise of delivering hiscountry.As to the bowl and the lance, no one knows what became of them, but somesay that Bryak the sorcerer managed to steal them again, and that anyone who wishes to possess them must seek them as Peronnik did.From 'Le Foyer Breton,' par Emile Souvestre.