In a very cold country, far across the seas, where ice and snow coverthe ground for many months in the year, there lived a little hare,who, as his father and mother were both dead, was brought up by hisgrandmother. As he was too young, and she was too old, to work, theywere very poor, and often did not have enough to eat.One day, when the little fellow was hungrier than usual, he asked hisgrandmother if he might go down to the river and catch a fish for theirbreakfast, as the thaw had come and the water was flowing freely again.She laughed at him for thinking that any fish would let itself be caughtby a hare, especially such a young one. but as she had the rheumatismvery badly, and could get no food herself, she let him go. 'If he doesnot catch a fish he may find something else,' she said to herself. Soshe told her grandson where to look for the net, and how he was to setit across the river. but just as he was starting, feeling himself quitea man, she called him back.'After all, I don't know what is the use of your going, my boy! For evenif you should catch a fish, I have no fire to cook it with.''Let me catch my fish, and I will soon make you a fire,' he answeredgaily, for he was young, and knew nothing about the difficulties offire making.It took him some time to haul the net through bushes and over fields,but at length he reached a pool in the river which he had often heardwas swarming with fish, and here he set the net, as his grandmother haddirected him.He was so excited that he hardly slept all night, and at the very firststreak of dawn he ran as fast as ever he could down to the river. Hisheart beat as quickly as if he had had dogs behind him, and he hardlydared to look, lest he should be disappointed. Would there be even onefish? And at this thought the pangs of hunger made him feel quite sickwith fear. But he need not have been afraid. in every mesh of the netwas a fine fat fish, and of course the net itself was so heavy thathe could only lift one corner. He threw some of the fish back into thewater, and buried some more in a hole under a stone, where he would besure to find them. Then he rolled up the net with the rest, put it onhis back and carried it home. The weight of the load caused his back toache, and he was thankful to drop it outside their hut, while he rushedin, full of joy, to tell his grandmother. 'Be quick and clean them!' hesaid, 'and I will go to those people's tents on the other side of thewater.'The old woman stared at him in horror as she listened to his proposal.Other people had tried to steal fire before, and few indeed had comeback with their lives. but as, contrary to all her expectations, he hadmanaged to catch such a number of fish, she thought that perhaps therewas some magic about him which she did not know of, and did not try tohinder him.When the fish were all taken out, he fetched the net which he had laidout to dry, folded it up very small, and ran down to the river, hopingthat he might find a place narrow enough for him to jump over. but hesoon saw that it was too wide for even the best jumper in the world. Fora few moments he stood there, wondering what was to be done, then theredarted into his head some words of a spell which he had once heard awizard use, while drinking from the river. He repeated them, as well ashe could remember, and waited to see what would happen. In five minutessuch a grunting and a puffing was heard, and columns of water rose intothe air, though he could not tell what had made them. Then round thebend of the stream came fifteen huge whales, which he ordered to placethemselves heads to tails, like stepping stones, so that he could jumpfrom one to the other till he landed on the opposite shore. Directly hegot there he told the whales that he did not need them any more, and satdown in the sand to rest.Unluckily some children who were playing about caught sight of him, andone of them, stealing softly up behind him, laid tight hold of hisears. The hare, who had been watching the whales as they sailed down theriver, gave a violent start, and struggled to get away. but the boy heldon tight, and ran back home, as fast as he could go.'Throw it in the pot,' said the old woman, as soon as he had told hisstory. 'put it in that basket, and as soon as the water boils in the potwe will hang it over the fire!''Better kill it first,' said the old man. and the hare listened,horribly frightened, but still looking secretly to see if there was nohole through which he could escape, if he had a chance of doing so. Yes,there was one, right in the top of the tent, so, shaking himself, as ifwith fright, he let the end of his net unroll itself a little.'I wish that a spark of fire would fall on my net,' whispered he. andthe next minute a great log fell forward into the midst of the tent,causing every one to spring backwards. The sparks were scattered inevery direction, and one fell on the net, making a little blaze. In aninstant the hare had leaped through the hole, and was racing towardsthe river, with men, women, and children after him. There was no time tocall back the whales, so, holding the net tight in his mouth, he wishedhimself across the river. Then he jumped high into the air, and landedsafe on the other side, and after turning round to be sure that therewas no chance of anyone pursuing him, trotted happily home to hisgrandmother.'Didn't I tell you I would bring you fire?' said he, holding up his net,which was now burning briskly.'But how did you cross the water?' inquired the old woman.'Oh, I just jumped!' said he. And his grandmother asked him no morequestions, for she saw that he was wiser than she.