"Near the shores of the great Belt, which is one of the straitsthat connect the Cattegat with the Baltic, stands an old mansionwith thick red walls. I know every stone of it," says the Wind. "I sawit when it was part of the castle of Marck Stig on the promontory. Butthe castle was obliged to be pulled down, and the stone was used againfor the walls of a new mansion on another spot the baronial residenceof Borreby, which still stands near the coast. I knew them well, thosenoble lords and ladies, the successive generations that dwelt there.and now I'm going to tell you of Waldemar Daa and his daughters. Howproud was his bearing, for he was of royal blood, and could boast ofmore noble deeds than merely hunting the stag and emptying thewine cup. His rule was despotic: 'It shall be,' he was accustomed tosay. His wife, in garments embroidered with gold, stepped proudly overthe polished marble floors. The tapestries were gorgeous, and thefurniture of costly and artistic taste. She had brought gold and platewith her into the house. The cellars were full of wine. Black, fieryhorses, neighed in the stables. There was a look of wealth about thehouse of Borreby at that time. They had three children, daughters,fair and delicate maidens Ida, Joanna, and Anna Dorothea. I havenever forgotten their names. They were a rich, noble family, born inaffluence and nurtured in luxury."Whir r r, whir r r!" roared the Wind, and went on, "I did not seein this house, as in other great houses, the high born lady sittingamong her women, turning the spinning wheel. She could sweep thesounding chords of the guitar, and sing to the music, not alwaysDanish melodies, but the songs of a strange land. It was 'Live and letlive,' here. Stranger guests came from far and near, music sounded,goblets clashed, and I," said the Wind, "was not able to drown thenoise. Ostentation, pride, splendor, and display ruled, but not thefear of the Lord."It was on the evening of the first day of May," the Windcontinued, "I came from the west, and had seen the ships overpoweredwith the waves, when all on board persisted or were cast shipwreckedon the coast of Jutland. I had hurried across the heath and overJutland's wood girt eastern coast, and over the island of Funen, andthen I drove across the great belt, sighing and moaning. At length Ilay down to rest on the shores of Zeeland, near to the great houseof Borreby, where the splendid forest of oaks still flourished. Theyoung men of the neighborhood were collecting branches and brushwoodunder the oak trees. The largest and dryest they could find theycarried into the village, and piled them up in a heap and set themon fire. Then the men and maidens danced, and sung in a circle roundthe blazing pile. I lay quite quiet," said the Wind, "but I silentlytouched a branch which had been brought by one of the handsomest ofthe young men, and the wood blazed up brightly, blazed brighter thanall the rest. Then he was chosen as the chief, and received the nameof the Shepherd. and might choose his lamb from among the maidens.There was greater mirth and rejoicing than I had ever heard in thehalls of the rich baronial house. Then the noble lady drove by towardsthe baron's mansion with her three daughters, in a gilded carriagedrawn by six horses. The daughters were young and beautiful threecharming blossoms a rose, a lily, and a white hyacinth. The motherwas a proud tulip, and never acknowledged the salutations of any ofthe men or maidens who paused in their sport to do her honor. Thegracious lady seemed like a flower that was rather stiff in the stalk.Rose, lily, and hyacinth yes, I saw them all three. Whose littlelambs will they one day become? thought I. their shepherd will be agallant knight, perhaps a prince. The carriage rolled on, and thepeasants resumed their dancing. They drove about the summer throughall the villages near. But one night, when I rose again, the high bornlady lay down to rise again no more. that thing came to her whichcomes to us all, in which there is nothing new. Waldemar Daaremained for a time silent and thoughtful. 'The loftiest tree may bebowed without being broken,' said a voice within him. His daughterswept. all the people in the mansion wiped their eyes, but Lady Daa haddriven away, and I drove away too," said the Wind. "Whir r r,whir r r !"I returned again. I often returned and passed over the islandof Funen and the shores of the Belt. Then I rested by Borreby, nearthe glorious wood, where the heron made his nest, the haunt of thewood pigeons, the blue birds, and the black stork. It was yetspring, some were sitting on their eggs, others had already hatchedtheir young broods. but how they fluttered about and cried out whenthe axe sounded through the forest, blow upon blow! The trees of theforest were doomed. Waldemar Daa wanted to build a noble ship, aman of war, a three decker, which the king would be sure to buy. andthese, the trees of the wood, the landmark of the seamen, the refugeof the birds, must be felled. The hawk started up and flew away, forits nest was destroyed. the heron and all the birds of the forestbecame homeless, and flew about in fear and anger. I could wellunderstand how they felt. Crows and ravens croaked, as if in scorn,while the trees were cracking and falling around them. Far in theinterior of the wood, where a noisy swarm of laborers were working,stood Waldemar Daa and his three daughters, and all were laughing atthe wild cries of the birds, excepting one, the youngest, AnnaDorothea, who felt grieved to the heart. and when they madepreparations to fell a tree that was almost dead, and on whose nakedbranches the black stork had built her nest, she saw the poor littlethings stretching out their necks, and she begged for mercy forthem, with the tears in her eyes. So the tree with the black stork'snest was left standing. the tree itself, however, was not worth muchto speak of. Then there was a great deal of hewing and sawing, andat last the three decker was built. The builder was a man of loworigin, but possessing great pride. his eyes and forehead spoke oflarge intellect, and Waldemar Daa was fond of listening to him, and sowas Waldemar's daughter Ida, the eldest, now about fifteen yearsold. and while he was building the ship for the father, he wasbuilding for himself a castle in the air, in which he and Ida wereto live when they were married. This might have happened, indeed, ifthere had been a real castle, with stone walls, ramparts, and amoat. But in spite of his clever head, the builder was still but apoor, inferior bird. and how can a sparrow expect to be admittedinto the society of peacocks?"I passed on in my course," said the Wind, "and he passed awayalso. He was not allowed to remain, and little Ida got over it,because she was obliged to do so. Proud, black horses, worth lookingat, were neighing in the stable. And they were locked up. for theadmiral, who had been sent by the king to inspect the new ship, andmake arrangements for its purchase, was loud in admiration of thesebeautiful horses. I heard it all," said the Wind, "for I accompaniedthe gentlemen through the open door of the stable, and strewedstalks of straw, like bars of gold, at their feet. Waldemar Daa wantedgold, and the admiral wished for the proud black horses. thereforehe praised them so much. But the hint was not taken, andconsequently the ship was not bought. It remained on the shore coveredwith boards, a Noah's ark that never got to the water Whir r r r andthat was a pity."In the winter, when the fields were covered with snow, and thewater filled with large blocks of ice which I had blown up to thecoast," continued the Wind, "great flocks of crows and ravens, darkand black as they usually are, came and alighted on the lonely,deserted ship. Then they croaked in harsh accents of the forest thatnow existed no more, of the many pretty birds' nests destroyed and thelittle ones left without a home. and all for the sake of that greatbit of lumber, that proud ship, that never sailed forth. I made thesnowflakes whirl till the snow lay like a great lake round the ship,and drifted over it. I let it hear my voice, that it might know whatthe storm has to say. Certainly I did my part towards teaching itseamanship."That winter passed away, and another winter and summer bothpassed, as they are still passing away, even as I pass away. Thesnow drifts onwards, the apple blossoms are scattered, the leavesfall, everything passes away, and men are passing away too. But thegreat man's daughters are still young, and little Ida is a rose asfair to look upon as on the day when the shipbuilder first saw her.I often tumbled her long, brown hair, while she stood in the garden bythe apple tree, musing, and not heeding how I strewed the blossomson her hair, and dishevelled it. or sometimes, while she stoodgazing at the red sun and the golden sky through the openingbranches of the dark, thick foliage of the garden trees. Her sisterJoanna was bright and slender as a lily. she had a tall and loftycarriage and figure, though, like her mother, rather stiff in back.She was very fond of walking through the great hall, where hung theportraits of her ancestors. The women were represented in dresses ofvelvet and silk, with tiny little hats, embroidered with pearls, ontheir braided hair. They were all handsome women. The gentlemenappeared clad in steel, or in rich cloaks lined with squirrel's fur.they wore little ruffs, and swords at their sides. Where wouldJoanna's place be on that wall some day? and how would he look, hernoble lord and husband? This is what she thought of, and often spokeof in a low voice to herself. I heard it as I swept into the longhall, and turned round to come out again. Anna Dorothea, the palehyacinth, a child of fourteen, was quiet and thoughtful. her large,deep, blue eyes had a dreamy look, but a childlike smile stillplayed round her mouth. I was not able to blow it away, neither didI wish to do so. We have met in the garden, in the hollow lane, in thefield and meadow, where she gathered herbs and flowers which sheknew would be useful to her father in preparing the drugs and mixtureshe was always concocting. Waldemar Daa was arrogant and proud, buthe was also a learned man, and knew a great deal. It was no secret,and many opinions were expressed on what he did. In his fireplacethere was a fire, even in summer time. He would lock himself in hisroom, and for days the fire would be kept burning. but he did not talkmuch of what he was doing. The secret powers of nature are generallydiscovered in solitude, and did he not soon expect to find out the artof making the greatest of all good things the art of making gold?So he fondly hoped. therefore the chimney smoked and the fire crackledso constantly. Yes, I was there too," said the Wind. "'Leave italone,' I sang down the chimney. 'leave it alone, it will all end insmoke, air, coals, and ashes, and you will burn your fingers.' ButWaldemar Daa did not leave it alone, and all he possessed vanishedlike smoke blown by me. The splendid black horses, where are they?What became of the cows in the field, the old gold and silvervessels in cupboards and chests, and even the house and home itself?It was easy to melt all these away in the gold making crucible, andyet obtain no gold. And so it was. Empty are the barns andstore rooms, the cellars and cupboards. the servants decreased innumber, and the mice multiplied. First one window became broken, andthen another, so that I could get in at other places besides the door.'Where the chimney smokes, the meal is being cooked,' says theproverb. but here a chimney smoked that devoured all the meals for thesake of gold. I blew round the courtyard," said the Wind, "like awatchman blowing his home, but no watchman was there. I twirled theweather cock round on the summit of the tower, and it creaked like thesnoring of a warder, but no warder was there. nothing but mice andrats. Poverty laid the table cloth. poverty sat in the wardrobe and inthe larder. The door fell off its hinges, cracks and fissures madetheir appearance everywhere. so that I could go in and out atpleasure, and that is how I know all about it. Amid smoke and ashes,sorrow, and sleepless nights, the hair and beard of the master ofthe house turned gray, and deep furrows showed themselves around histemples. his skin turned pale and yellow, while his eyes stilllooked eagerly for gold, the longed for gold, and the result of hislabor was debt instead of gain. I blew the smoke and ashes into hisface and beard. I moaned through the broken window panes, and theyawning clefts in the walls. I blew into the chests and drawersbelonging to his daughters, wherein lay the clothes that had becomefaded and threadbare, from being worn over and over again. Such a songhad not been sung, at the children's cradle as I sung now. Thelordly life had changed to a life of penury. I was the only one whorejoiced aloud in that castle," said the Wind. "At last I snowedthem up, and they say snow keeps people warm. It was good for them,for they had no wood, and the forest, from which they might haveobtained it, had been cut down. The frost was very bitter, and Irushed through loop holes and passages, over gables and roofs withkeen and cutting swiftness. The three high born daughters were lyingin bed because of the cold, and their father crouching beneath hisleather coverlet. Nothing to eat, nothing to burn, no fire on thehearth! Here was a life for high born people! 'Give it up, give itup!' But my Lord Daa would not do that. 'After winter, spring willcome,' he said, 'after want, good times. We must not lose patience, wemust learn to wait. Now my horses and lands are all mortgaged, it isindeed high time. but gold will come at last at Easter.'"I heard him as he thus spoke. he was looking at a spider's web,and he continued, 'Thou cunning little weaver, thou dost teach meperseverance. Let any one tear thy web, and thou wilt begin againand repair it. Let it be entirely destroyed, thou wilt resolutelybegin to make another till it is completed. So ought we to do, if wewish to succeed at last.'"It was the morning of Easter day. The bells sounded from theneighboring church, and the sun seemed to rejoice in the sky. Themaster of the castle had watched through the night, in feverishexcitement, and had been melting and cooling, distilling and mixing. Iheard him sighing like a soul in despair. I heard him praying, and Inoticed how he held his breath. The lamp burnt out, but he did notobserve it. I blew up the fire in the coals on the hearth, and itthrew a red glow on his ghastly white face, lighting it up with aglare, while his sunken eyes looked out wildly from their cavernousdepths, and appeared to grow larger and more prominent, as if theywould burst from their sockets. 'Look at the alchymic glass,' hecried. 'something glows in the crucible, pure and heavy.' He lifted itwith a trembling hand, and exclaimed in a voice of agitation, 'Gold!gold!' He was quite giddy, I could have blown him down," said theWind. "but I only fanned the glowing coals, and accompanied himthrough the door to the room where his daughter sat shivering. Hiscoat was powdered with ashes, and there were ashes in his beard and inhis tangled hair. He stood erect, and held high in the air the brittleglass that contained his costly treasure. 'Found! found! Gold!gold!' he shouted, again holding the glass aloft, that it mightflash in the sunshine. but his hand trembled, and the alchymic glassfell from it, clattering to the ground, and brake in a thousandpieces. The last bubble of his happiness had burst, with a whiz anda whir, and I rushed away from the gold maker's house."Late in the autumn, when the days were short, and the mistsprinkled cold drops on the berries and the leafless branches, Icame back in fresh spirits, rushed through the air, swept the skyclear, and snapped off the dry twigs, which is certainly no greatlabor to do, yet it must be done. There was another kind of sweepingtaking place at Waldemar Daa's, in the castle of Borreby. His enemy,Owe Ramel, of Basnas, was there, with the mortgage of the house andeverything it contained, in his pocket. I rattled the brokenwindows, beat against the old rotten doors, and whistled throughcracks and crevices, so that Mr. Owe Ramel did not much like to remainthere. Ida and Anna Dorothea wept bitterly, Joanna stood, pale andproud, biting her lips till the blood came. but what could that avail?Owe Ramel offered Waldemar Daa permission to remain in the housetill the end of his life. No one thanked him for the offer, and Isaw the ruined old gentleman lift his head, and throw it back moreproudly than ever. Then I rushed against the house and the oldlime trees with such force, that one of the thickest branches, adecayed one, was broken off, and the branch fell at the entrance,and remained there. It might have been used as a broom, if any one hadwanted to sweep the place out, and a grand sweeping out there reallywas. I thought it would be so. It was hard for any one to preservecomposure on such a day. but these people had strong wills, asunbending as their hard fortune. There was nothing they could calltheir own, excepting the clothes they wore. Yes, there was one thingmore, an alchymist's glass, a new one, which had been lately bought,and filled with what could be gathered from the ground of the treasurewhich had promised so much but failed in keeping its promise. WaldemarDaa hid the glass in his bosom, and, taking his stick in his hand, theonce rich gentleman passed with his daughters out of the house ofBorreby. I blew coldly upon his flustered cheeks, I stroked his graybeard and his long white hair, and I sang as well as I was able,'Whir r r, whir r r. Gone away! Gone away!' Ida walked on one sideof the old man, and Anna Dorothea on the other. Joanna turned round,as they left the entrance. Why? Fortune would not turn because sheturned. She looked at the stone in the walls which had once formedpart of the castle of Marck Stig, and perhaps she thought of hisdaughters and of the old song, "The eldest and youngest, hand in hand,Went forth alone to a distant land."These were only two. here there were three, and their father with themalso. They walked along the high road, where once they had driven intheir splendid carriage. they went forth with their father as beggars.They wandered across an open field to a mud hut, which they rented fora dollar and a half a year, a new home, with bare walls and emptycupboards. Crows and magpies fluttered about them, and cried, as if incontempt, 'Caw, caw, turned out of our nest caw, caw,' as they haddone in the wood at Borreby, when the trees were felled. Daa and hisdaughters could not help hearing it, so I blew about their ears todrown the noise. what use was it that they should listen? So they wentto live in the mud hut in the open field, and I wandered away, overmoor and meadow, through bare bushes and leafless forests, to the opensea, to the broad shores in other lands, 'Whir r r, whir r r! Away,away!' year after year."And what became of Waldemar Daa and his daughters? Listen. theWind will tell us:"The last I saw of them was the pale hyacinth, Anna Dorothea. Shewas old and bent then. for fifty years had passed and she had outlivedthem all. She could relate the history. Yonder, on the heath, near thetown of Wiborg, in Jutland, stood the fine new house of the canon. Itwas built of red brick, with projecting gables. It was inhabited, forthe smoke curled up thickly from the chimneys. The canon's gentle ladyand her beautiful daughters sat in the bay window, and looked over thehawthorn hedge of the garden towards the brown heath. What were theylooking at? Their glances fell upon a stork's nest, which was builtupon an old tumbledown hut. The roof, as far as one existed at all,was covered with moss and lichen. The stork's nest covered the greaterpart of it, and that alone was in a good condition. for it was kept inorder by the stork himself. That is a house to be looked at, and notto be touched," said the Wind. "For the sake of the stork's nest ithad been allowed to remain, although it is a blot on the landscape.They did not like to drive the stork away. therefore the old shed wasleft standing, and the poor woman who dwelt in it allowed to stay. Shehad the Egyptian bird to thank for that. or was it perchance herreward for having once interceded for the preservation of the nest ofits black brother in the forest of Borreby? At that time she, thepoor woman, was a young child, a white hyacinth in a rich garden. Sheremembered that time well. for it was Anna Dorothea."'O h, o h,' she sighed. for people can sigh like the moaning ofthe wind among the reeds and rushes. 'O h, o h,' she would say, 'nobell sounded at thy burial, Waldemar Daa. The poor school boys did noteven sing a psalm when the former lord of Borreby was laid in theearth to rest. O h, everything has an end, even misery. Sister Idabecame the wife of a peasant. that was the hardest trial whichbefell our father, that the husband of his own daughter should be amiserable serf, whom his owner could place for punishment on thewooden horse. I suppose he is under the ground now. and Ida alas!alas! it is not ended yet. miserable that I am! Kind Heaven, grantme that I may die.'"That was Anna Dorothea's prayer in the wretched hut that was leftstanding for the sake of the stork. I took pity on the proudest of thesisters," said the Wind. "Her courage was like that of a man. and inman's clothes she served as a sailor on board ship. She was of fewwords, and of a dark countenance. but she did not know how to climb,so I blew her overboard before any one found out that she was a woman.and, in my opinion, that was well done," said the Wind.On such another Easter morning as that on which Waldemar Daaimagined he had discovered the art of making gold, I heard the tonesof a psalm under the stork's nest, and within the crumbling walls.It was Anna Dorothea's last song. There was no window in the hut, onlya hole in the wall. and the sun rose like a globe of burnished gold,and looked through. With what splendor he filled that dismal dwelling!Her eyes were glazing, and her heart breaking. but so it would havebeen, even had the sun not shone that morning on Anna Dorothea. Thestork's nest had secured her a home till her death. I sung over hergrave. I sung at her father's grave. I know where it lies, and whereher grave is too, but nobody else knows it."New times now. all is changed. The old high road is lost amidcultivated fields. the new one now winds along over covered graves.and soon the railway will come, with its train of carriages, andrush over graves where lie those whose very names are forgoten. Allpassed away, passed away!"This is the story of Waldemar Daa and his daughters. Tell itbetter, any of you, if you know how," said the Wind. and he rushedaway, and was gone.