The devil once called on a farmer and asked him if he could give him ajob."What can you do?" said the farmer."Oh! anything about a farm," said the devil."Well, I want a man to help me thresh a mow of wheat," says the farmer."All right," says the devil, "I'm your man."When they got to the barn, the farmer said to the devil, "Which do youwant to do, thresh or throw down?""Thresh," said the devil.So the farmer got on top of the mow and began to throw down the sheavesof wheat onto the barn floor, but as fast as he could throw them down, thedevil with one stroke of his flail knocked all the grain out of them andsent the sheaves flying out of the barn door.The farmer thought he had got a queer sort of a thresher man. and as hecouldn't throw down fast enough for him, he says to him, "Will youcome and throw down?""All right," says the devil. So the farmer gets down off the mow by theladder, but the devil, he just gives a leap up from the barn floor to thetop of the mow without waiting to go up the ladder."Are you ready?" says the devil."Yes," says the farmer.With that the devil sticks his fork into as many sheaves as would coverthe barn floor and throws them down."That'll do for a bit," says the farmer. So the devil sat down andwaited till the farmer had threshed that lot, and when he was ready again,he threw another floor full. and before night they'd finished threshingthe whole mow of wheat. The farmer couldn't help thinking a good dealabout his new man, for he'd never seen such a one before. (He didn't knowit was the devil, you know, because he took care not to let the farmer seehis cloven foot.)So in the morning he got up early and went and spoke to a cunning manabout it. The cunning man said it must be the devil that had come to him,and as he had asked him in, he couldn't get rid of him unless he couldgive him a job that he couldn't do.Soon after the farmer got home again, his new man wanted to know whathe was to do that day, and the farmer thought he'd give him a teaser, sohe says, "Go into the barn, look, and count the number of grains there arein that pile of wheat that we threshed out yesterday.""All right," says old Nick, and off he went. In a few minutes he comesback and says, "Master, there are so many" (naming ever so many thousandor millions and odd, I don't know how many)."Are you sure you counted them all?" says the farmer."Every grain," says Satan.Then the farmer ordered him to go and fill a hogshead barrel full ofwater with a sieve. So off he shoots again, but soon comes back and tellsthe farmer he'd done it. and sure enough he had. And every job the farmerset him to do was the same. The poor farmer didn't know what to make ofit, for though he was getting his work done up so quick, he didn't likehis new man's company.However, the farmer thought he'd have another try to trick him, andtold the devil he wanted him to go with him mowing next morning."All right," says the old one. "I'll be there, master."But as soon as it was night, the farmer went to the field, and in thepart the devil was to mow, he drove a lot of harrow tines into the groundamongst the grass. In the morning they got to the field in smart time, andbegan to mow. The farmer he took his side, and told the devil to begin onthe other, where he'd stuck in the harrow tines, you know. Well, at itwent the devil, who but he, and soon got in among the stuck up harrowtines, but they made no odds. His scythe went through them all, and theonly notice on them he took was to say to the farmer every time he'd cutone of them through, "a burdock, master," and kept on just the same.The poor farmer, he got so frightened at last, he threw down his scytheand left the devil to finish the field. As luck would have it, soon afterhe got home, a Gypsy woman called at the farm house, and seeing the farmerwas in trouble, asked him what was the matter. So he up and told her allabout it."Ah, master," she says to him when he had told her all about it, "youhave got the devil in your house sure enough, and you can only get rid ofhim by giving him something to do that he can't manage.""Well, woman," says the farmer, "what's the use of telling me that? Itried everything I can think of, but darned if I can find him any job thathe can't do.""I'll tell you what to do," says the Gypsy woman, "When he comes home,you get the missus to give him one of her curly hairs, and then send himto the blacksmith's shop to straighten it on the blacksmith's anvil. He'llfind he can't do that, and he'll get so wild over it, that he'll nevercome back to you again."The farmer was very thankful to the Gypsy woman and said he'd try herplan.So by and by in comes the old fellow, and says, "I have finished themowing, master. What else have you got for me to do?""Well, I can't think of another job just now," says the farmer, "but Ithink the missus has got a little job for you."So he called the missus, and she gave the devil a curly hair lapped upin a bit of paper, and told him to go to the blacksmith's shop and hammerthat there hair straight. and when it was straight to bring it back toher."All right, missus," the devil says, and off he shot. When he got tothe blacksmith's shop, he hammered and hammered at that there hair on theanvil, but the more he hammered the crookeder the hair got. so at last hethrew down the hammer and the hair, and bolted, and never went back to thefarmer again.