There was once an old woman, who was all alone one evening in hercottage, occupied with her household affairs. While she was waiting forher husband, who was away at work over in the forest, and while she wasbustling about, a fine, grand lady came in, and so the woman began tocurtsy and curtsy, for she had never seen such a grand person before."I should be so much obliged if you would lend me your brewing pan,"said the lady, "for my daughter is going to be married, and I expectguests from all parts."Oh, dear, yes! That she might have, said the woman, although she couldnot remember whether she had ever seen her before, and so she went tofetch the pan.The lady took it, and thanked the woman, saying that she would pay herwell for the loan of it, and so she went her way.Two days afterwards the lady came back with it, and this time she alsofound the woman alone."Many thanks for the loan," said the lady. "and now in return you shallhave three wishes."And with this the lady left, and vanished so quickly that the old womanhad not even time to ask her name or where she lived. But that did notmatter, she thought, for now she had three wishes, and she began to thinkwhat she should wish for. She expected her husband back soon, and shethought it would be best to wait until he came home and could have a sayin the matter. But the least they could wish for must be a fine big farm  the best in the parish, and a box full of money, and just fancy howhappy and comfortable they would be then, for they had worked so hard alltheir days! Ah, yes, then the neighbors would have something to wonder at,for you may guess how they would stare at all the fine things she wouldhave.But since they were now so rich it was really a shame that there shouldbe nothing but some blue, sour milk and some hard crusts of bread in thecupboard for her husband when he came home tired and weary, he who wasfond of hot food. She had just been to her neighbor's and there she hadseen a fine big sausage, which they were going to have for supper."Ah, deary me, I wish I had that sausage here!" sighed the old woman.and the next moment a big sausage lay on the table right before her.She was just going to put it in the pan when her husband came in."Father, father!" cried the woman, "it's all over with our troubles andhard work now. I lent my brewing pan to a fine lady, and when she broughtit back she promised we should have three wishes. And now you must help meto wish for something really good, for you're so clever at hitting uponthe right thing   and it's all true, for just look at the sausage, whichI got the moment I wished for it!""What do you mean, you silly old woman?" shouted the husband, whobecame angry. "Have you been wishing for such a paltry thing as a sausage,when you might have had anything you liked in the world? I wish thesausage were sticking to your nose, since you haven't any bettersense."All at once the woman gave a cry, for sure enough there was the sausagesticking to her nose. and she began tearing and pulling away at it, butthe more she pulled the firmer it seemed to stick. She was not able to getit off."Oh, dear! oh, dear!" sobbed the woman. "You don't seem to have anymore sense than I, since you can wish me such ill luck. I only wantedsomething nice for you, and then   , oh dear! oh, dear!" and the oldwoman went on crying and sobbing.The husband tried, of course, to help his wife to get rid of thesausage. but for all he pulled and tugged away at it he did not succeed,and he was nearly pulling his wife's head off her body.But they had one wish left, and what were they now to wish?Yes, what were they to wish? They might, of course, wish for somethingvery fine and grand. but what could they do with all the finery in theworld, as long as the mistress of the house had a long sausage sticking tothe end of her nose? She would never be able to show herself anywhere!"You wish for something," said the woman in the midst of hercrying."No, you wish," said the husband, who also began crying when he saw thestate his wife was in, and saw the terrible sausage hanging down herface.So he thought he would make the best use he could of the last wish, andsaid, "I wish my wife was rid of that sausage."And the next moment it was gone! They both became so glad that theyjumped up and danced around the room in great glee   for you must knowthat although a sausage may be ever so nice when you have it in yourmouth, it is quite a different thing to have one sticking to your nose allyour life.