So I said, Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that my second brother, whosename was El Heddar, was going one day to transact somebusiness, when an old woman met him, and said to him, O man, stop alittle, that I may propose to thee a thing, which, if it please thee,thou shalt do for me. My brother, therefore, stopped. and she said tohim, I will guide thee to a thing, and rightly direct thee to it, on thecondition that thy words be not many. So he said, Communicate what thouhast to tell me: and she proceeded thus: What sayest thou of ahandsome house, with running water, and fruit and wine, and a beautifulface to behold, and a smooth cheek to kiss, and an elegant form toembrace. and to enjoy all these pleasures without interruption? Now, ifthou wilt act agreeably with the condition that I have imposed uponthee, thou wilt see prosperity. When my brother had heard her words, hesaid to her, O my mistress, how is it that thou hast sought me out inpreference to all the rest of the creation for this affair. and what isthere in me that hath pleased thee? She replied, Did I not say to theethat thou must not be a person of many words? Be silent then, and comewith me.The old woman then went her way, my brother following her, eager toenjoy the pleasures which she had described to him, until they hadentered a spacious house, when she went up with him to an upper story,and my brother perceived that he was in a beautiful palace, in which hebeheld four damsels, than whom none more lovely had ever been seen,singing with voices that would charm a heart as insensible as stone. Oneof these damsels drank a cup of wine. and my brother said to her, May itbe attended with health and vigour! and advanced to wait upon her. butshe prevented his doing so, giving him to drink a cup of wine. and assoon as he had drunk it, she slapped him on his neck. When he found thatshe treated him thus, he went out from the chamber in anger, and withmany words. but the old woman, following him, made a sign to him withher eye that he should return: so he returned, and seated himself,without speaking. and upon this, the damsel slapped him again upon theback of his neck until he became senseless. after which, recovering, hewithdrew again. The old woman, however, overtook him, and said to him,Wait a little, and thou shalt attain thy wish. How many times, said he,shall I wait a little before I attain it? The old woman answered, Whenshe hath become exhilarated with wine thou shalt obtain her favour. Hetherefore returned to his place, and resumed his seat. All the fourdamsels then arose, and the old woman directed them to divest my brotherof his outer clothes, and to sprinkle some rose water upon his face. andwhen they had done so, the most beautiful one among them said to him,May Allah exalt thee to honour! Thou hast entered my abode, and if thouhave patience to submit to my requisitions, thou wilt attain thywish. O my mistress, he replied, I am thy slave, and under thyauthority. Know then, said she, that I am devotedly fond of frolic, andhe who complieth with my demands will obtain my favour. Then she orderedthe other damsels to sing. and they sang so that their hearers were inan ecstasy. after which the chief lady said to one of the other damsels,Take thy master, and do what is required, and bring him back to meimmediately.Accordingly, she took him away, ignorant of that which she was about todo. and the old woman came to him, and said, Be patient. for thereremaineth but little to do. He then turned towards the damsel, and theold woman said to him, Be patient: thou hast almost succeeded, and thereremaineth but one thing, which is, to shave thy beard. How, said he,shall I do that which will disgrace me among the people? The old womananswered, She desireth this only to make thee like a beardless youth,that there may be nothing on thy face to prick her. for her heart isaffected with a violent love for thee. Be patient, therefore, and thoushalt attain thy desire. So my brother patiently submitted to thedamsel's directions: his beard was shaven, and he was shorn also of hiseyebrows and mustaches, and his face was painted red, before the damseltook him back to the chief lady, who, when she saw him, was at firstfrightened at him, and then laughed until she fell backwards, andexclaimed, O my master, thou hast gained me by these proofs of thineamiable manners! She then conjured him by her life to arise and dance.and he did so. and there was not a single cushion in the chamber thatshe did not throw at him. In like manner also the other damsels threw athim various things, such as oranges, and limes, and citrons, until hefell down senseless from the pelting, while they slapped him incessantlyupon the back of his neck, and cast things in his face. But at lengththe old woman said to him, Now thou hast attained thy wish. Know thatthere remaineth to thee no more beating, nor doth there remain for theeto do more than one thing, namely, this: it is her custom, when she isunder the influence of wine, to suffer no one to come near her until shehath taken off her outer clothes. thou, being prepared in the likemanner, must run after her, and she will run before thee as though shewere flying from thee. but cease not to follow her from place to placeuntil thou overtake her. He arose, therefore, and did so: the lady ranbefore, and as he followed her, she passed from chamber to chamber, andhe still ran after her. At last he heard her utter a slight sound as sheran before him, and, continuing his pursuit, he suddenly found himselfin the midst of the street.This street was in the market of the leather sellers, who were thencrying skins for sale. and when the people there collected saw him inthis condition, almost naked, with shaven beard and eyebrows andmustaches, and with his face painted red, they shouted at him, andraised a loud laugh, and some of them beat him with the skins until hebecame insensible. They then placed him upon an ass, and conducted himto the Walee, who exclaimed, What is this? They answered, Thisdescended upon us from the house of the Wezeer, in this condition. Andthe Walee inflicted upon him a hundred lashes, and banished him from thecity: but I went out after him, and brought him back privately into thecity, and allotted him a maintenance. Had it not been for my generousdisposition, I had not borne with such a person.