Sarah, the wife of the patriarch Abraham, and the great mother of theJewish people, was the most beautiful woman who ever lived. Everybodywho saw her marveled at the dazzling radiance of her countenance. theystood spellbound before the glorious light that shone in her eyes andthe wondrous clearness of her complexion. This greatly troubledAbraham when he fled from Canaan to Egypt. It was disconcerting tohave crowds of travelers gazing at his wife as if she were somethingmore than human. Besides, he feared that the Egyptians would seizeSarah for the king's harem.So, after much meditation, he concealed his wife in a big box. When hearrived at the Egyptian frontier, the customs officials asked him whatit contained."Barley," he replied."You say that because the duty on barley is the lowest," they said."The box must surely be packed with wheat."(: He could not see what Sarah saw a figure, aspirit, clutching a big stick. (_Page 72_).)"I will pay the duty on wheat," said Abraham, who was most anxiousthey should not open the box.The officials were surprised, for, as a rule, people endeavored toavoid paying the duties."If you are so ready to pay the higher tax," they said, "the box mustcontain something of greater value. Perhaps it contains spices."Abraham intimated his readiness to pay the duty on spices."Oh, Oh!" laughed the officers. "Here is a strange person ready to payheavy dues. He must be anxious to conceal something gold, perchance.""I will pay the duty on gold," said Abraham, quietly.The officers were now completely bewildered."Our highest duty," said their chief, "is on precious stones, andsince you decline to open the box, we must demand the tax on thecostliest gems.""I will pay it," said Abraham, simply.The officers could not understand this at all, and after consultingamong themselves, they decided that the box must be opened."It may contain something highly dangerous," they argued.Abraham protested, but he was arrested by the guards and the boxforced open. When Sarah was revealed, the officials stepped back inamazement and admiration."Indeed, a rare jewel," said the chief.It was immediately decided to send Sarah to the king. When Pharaohbeheld her, he was enraptured. She was simply dressed in the garmentsof a peasant woman, with no adornment and no jewels, and yet the kingthought he had never seen a woman so entrancingly beautiful. When hesaw Abraham, however, his brow clouded."Who is this man?" he demanded of Sarah.Fearing that he might be imprisoned, or even put to death if sheacknowledged him as her husband, Sarah replied that he was herbrother.Pharaoh felt relieved. He smiled on Abraham and greeted himpleasantly."Thy sister is exceeding fair to gaze upon," he said, "and comely ofform. She hath bewitched me by her matchless charm. She shall becomethe favorite of my harem. I will recompense thee well for thy loss ofher. Thou shalt be loaded with gifts."Abraham was too wise to betray the anger that surged in his heart."Courage, my beloved," he whispered to Sarah. "The good God will notforsake us."He made pretense of agreeing to Pharaoh's suggestion, and the chiefsteward of the king gave him an abundant store of gold and silver andjewels, also sheep and oxen and camels. Abraham was conducted to abeautiful palace, where many slaves attended him and bowed before him,for one on whom the monarch had showered favors was a great man in theland of Pharaoh. Left alone, Abraham began to pray most devoutly.Meanwhile, Sarah was led into a gorgeous apartment where the queen'sown attendants were ordered to array her in the richest of the royalgarments. Then she was brought before Pharaoh who dismissed all theattendants."I desire to be alone with thee," said the king to Sarah. "I have muchto say to thee, and I long to feast my eyes on those features ofbeauty rare."But Sarah shrank from him. To her, he appeared ugly and loathsome. Hissmile was a vicious leer, and his voice sounded like a harsh croak."Fear not," he said, trying to speak tenderly and kindly. "I will dothee no harm. Nay, I will load thee with honors. I will grant anyrequest that thou makest.""Then let me go hence," said Sarah, quickly. "I desire naught but thatthou shouldst permit me to depart with my brother.""Thou jestest," said Pharaoh. "That cannot be. I will make theequeen," he cried, passionately and he made a move toward her."Stop!" cried Sarah. "If thou approachest one step nearer...."Pharaoh interrupted with a laugh. To threaten a king was so funny thathe could not refrain from a hoarse cackle. But Sarah had becomesuddenly silent. She was looking not at him, but behind him. Pharaohturned, but observed nothing. He could not see what Sarah saw afigure, a spirit, clutching a big stick."Come," said the king, "be not foolish. I cannot be angry with acreature so fair as thou art. But it is not meet nay, it is notwise to utter threats to one who wears a crown."Sarah made no reply. She was no longer afraid. She knew that herprayers, and those of Abraham, had been answered, and that no harmwould befall her. Pharaoh mistook her silence and advanced toward her.As he did so, however, he felt a tremendous blow on the head. He wasstunned for a moment. On recovering himself he looked all round theroom, but could see nothing. Sarah continued to stand motionless."Strange," muttered Pharaoh. "I I thought some one had entered theroom."Again he moved toward Sarah, and once more he received a staggeringblow this time on the shoulder. It was only by a great effort of willthat he did not cry out in pain. He concluded he must have been seizedby some sudden illness, but after a moment he felt better and bravelytried to smile at Sarah."I I just thought of something most important," said he, attemptingto offer some explanation for nearly toppling over in an undignifiedmanner. He stood nearer to Sarah and began to raise his hand to touchher."If thou layest but a finger on me, it will be at thy peril,"exclaimed Sarah, her eyes flashing angrily."Pshaw!" he cried, losing patience, and he raised his hand.This time the cudgel of the spirit invisible to Pharaoh did not strikehim: it came down gently and rested lightly on the king'sout stretched arm. And Pharaoh could not move it. He grew pale andtrembled."Art thou a witch?" he gasped, at last.Sarah was so angry when she heard this insult that she flashed asignal with her eyes to the spirit, and the latter plied his cudgellustily about the king's head and shoulders, making the monarch breakout in most unkingly howls of pain."Thy pardon, thy pardon, I crave," he managed to scream. "I mean notwhat I said. I am ill very ill. My body aches. My arm is paralyzed."The cudgeling ceased and Pharaoh was able to move his arm. He writhedin agony, for he was bruised all over. He rushed hastily away, sayinghe would return on the morrow. Sarah found herself locked in, but shewas not again disturbed.Pharaoh, however, had further adventures. The spirit was in merry moodand had a night's entertainment at the king's expense. No sooner didthe king lie down upon his bed than the spirit tilted it and sent himsprawling on the floor. Whenever Pharaoh tried to lie down the samething happened. He went from one room to another, but all efforts atrest were unavailing. Every bed rejected him and every chair andcouch did the same, although when he commanded others to lie down theydid so quite comfortably. He tried lying down with one of hisattendants, but while the latter was able to remain undisturbed,Pharaoh found himself bodily lifted, stood upon his head, spun aroundand then rolled over on the ground.His physicians could provide no remedy, his magicians hastilysummoned from their own slumbers could afford no explanation, andPharaoh spent a terrible night wandering from room to room and up anddown the corridors, where the corners seemed to go out of their way tobump against him and the stairs seemed to go down when he wanted towalk up, and vice versa. Such a higgledy piggeldy palace was neverseen. Worse still, with the first streak of dawn he noticed that hewas smitten with leprosy.Hastily he sent for Abraham and said: "Who and what thou art I knownot. Thou and thy sister have brought a plague upon me. I desired tomake her my queen, but now I say to you: Rid me of this leprosy andget thee hence with thy sister. I will bestow riches on ye, but get yegone, and speedily."With a magic jewel which he wore on his breast, Abraham restoredPharaoh to health, and then departed with Sarah. These final words hesaid to Pharaoh:"Sarah is not my sister, but my wife. I give thee this warning. Shouldthy descendants at any time seek to persecute our descendants, thenwill our God, He, the One God of the universe, surely punish the kingwith plague again."And, many years afterward, as you read in the Bible, the predictioncame true.