The Seven Wise MastersIn the famous city of Mantua lived an ancient knight who married a beautiful young wife, whom he loved above all earthly things. but lest his age not concurring with the expectations of her more vigorous youth, should incline her to incontinence, and encourage her in a lawless flame, he was not wanting to do all in his power to confine her within his house. and every night be locked the gates with his own hands, and secured the keys under his bed head.But notwithstanding all the precautions and care of the old knight, his young wife found means to meet her gallant, and supply his defect, by taking the keys from under his bed's head, when he was fast asleep, and opening the door, went to her paramour. and having enjoyed one another to mutual satisfaction, she returned. and laying the keys where she found them, silently crept into bed to her husband.But after she had frequently thus pursued her unlawsul amours without being discovered, at last her husband happened to awake, when she was gone to prosecute her accustomed delights, and missing his wife, he felt for the keys. but not finding them, he got up, and went to the door, which he found only on the lock. and then bolting it, he returned to his chamber, and looked out of the window to see what time she returned.Now we must observe, that in the same city was a law, that at a certain hour in the night, a bell was rung, after which, if either man or woman was found in the streets, they were detained in prison till the next morning, and then put into the pillory, as objects of shame and derision unto all beholders.When it was very late, or rather early, his wife came from her gallant, but found the door bolted against her. however, she took the boldness to knock.The good old knight, looking out at the window, and seeing it was his wife, reproached her in the following manner: "O thou wicked and unchaste woman!" said he, "Have I found thee out? How often may I conclude thou hast committed adultery, and defiled thy marriage bed? Assure thyself, lascivious creature, that thou shall stand there till the ringing of the bell, that the watch may seize thee, and thou mayest meet with the punishment due to thy abominable perfidiousness and adultery."She answered in an humble, dissembling tone: "Why does my dear lord and husband thus unjustly charge me with a wicked crime, which my known chastity abhors from my soul? God is my witness I am innocent of this grievous accusation. for if you will know the truth, I was sent for by my mother, who was taken dangerously ill. and you being fast asleep, I was loth to awake you, and so with all possible silence I arose, and taking the keys, I opened the door, and went, as my duty obliged me, to my sick mother, whom I found so very ill, that, I fear she cannot live till morning. But for all that, my affection is so great to you tha I came away, and left a dying mother, to return to a dear and loving husband. wherefore, I beseech you, for the love of God, let me in, and do not for my great affection to you, expose me to shame and disgrace."These plausible pretences did not prevail upon the old knight, who justly looked upon her as guilty of adultery and falshood, and therefore he absolutely refused to let her in.Hereupon she reminded him, what a disgrace it would be, were she taken by the watch, not only to herself but to him, and all their relations. using besides, all the arguments her subtle invention could imagine necessary to prevail upon him. but finding all her prayers to no purpose, and that he remained inexorable, she bethought herself of a stratagem, which she prosecuted after the following manner:"My lord," said she, "you know that by this door there is a well. If you let me not in, I will drown myself to avoid the shame that is coming upon me and my friends."As the old gentleman was going about to reprove her further, and to threaten her, in hopes to deter her thereby from the like practices for the future, and then intending to let her in, and out of his great love and good nature, to forgive her, the moon went down, and the night was obscured with a darkness more than usual.Overjoyed at this advantage, she pursued her stratagem, and with an audible voice, and a dismal tone she thus expressed herself: "That I may die like a Christian, I will make my last will. and first I bequeath my soul to heaven, and my body to the earth. but all other worldly goods whatever, I bequeath to my dear husband, for him to dispose of as he shall think convenient."Having thus finished her pretended will, she went to the well, and there finding a great stone, she took it in her arms, and lifting it up, cried out, "Now I drown myself!" and so threw the stone into the well, squealing after it very artfully, to make her husband the more readily believe it was her. This done, she stept softly and hid herself behind the door again.Her stratagem had its desired effect. for the good old knight verily believing that his wife had been as good as her word, ran hastily down to the well, making a lamentable outcry all the way, from his great tenderness to her.Now observe the perfidiousness and crafty contrivance of this wicked woman, to turn the tables upon her too indulgent husband. for though, before she had injured him in the highest degree imaginable, yet now she makes him suffer publicly for her scandalous crimes. and instead of reparation to his abused honour, she by the falsest accusations, and most complicated wickedness procures him to be punished in the pillory as a debauched person, for her adulteries. and thereby at once clear herself, be revenged on her innocent husband for threatening her before, and all this at the price of her reputation and good name.The old knight was no sooner out, but she got in, and having locked the doors, went up into the chamber, and looked out of the window, as he had done before. And having a long while heard the good old man grievously lament for her supposed loss, and condemning himself for too much rigour, laughing all the time at him, for his indulgence and love, she at last, in opprobrious terms, called out to him, reproaching him in the vilest manner imaginable, calling him letcherous dotard, and upbraiding him with slighting her and going continually out on nights after harlots.The old good man was so overjoyed to hear his wife was alive, that he valued not what she said. and desiring her to have a better opinion of him, be begged her to open the door, and passing by all, they would be good friends.But all his prayers and intreaties availed nothing. She vowed he should stay till the watch came, that he might deservedly suffer, as he had threatened her before. The knight, in his own vindication, pleaded that it was an improbable thing, that he should be guilty of such vices, seeing his advanced years rendered him unqualified for the delights of love. alledging further, that out of pure affection to her, he was now in the streets. and therefore desired her not to let him suffer shamefully.She confidently answered, that it was God's goodness that he had given him time to repent. and therefore he ought to be thankful, and suffer patiently.The knight replied, that God was merciful, and required nothing more of a sinner, than that he should repent of his sins past, and amend his life. "Therefore, dear wife," said he, "I beg of you to let me in."She said, "Who the devil made you so good a preacher? But for all that you come not in here."And as he was studying some new persuasions to prevail upon her to let him in. the watch came, and finding him in the streets, demanded what he did there at that unseasonable, time of night, reminding him withal, that he had broke the law of the city, and though he was an ancient inhabitant thereof, that could not excuse him from suffering according to the nature of the offence.His wife hearing these words, cried out to the watchmen, "Now is the time, honest men, for you to avenge me on that foul adulterer, who is so insatiate in his lust, that he never fails at night to forsake my bed, and follow his strumpets. In hopes of reformation, I have patiently forborn him a great while. but nothing will reclaim him, slighting my youth, and continuing still in his wicked whoredoms. therefore now punish him according to his deserts, that he may be made an example to all such doating letchers as he is."Accordingly he was carried to prison. and he, next morning, shamefully stood in the pillory.