Know, O my lady, that I also am a King and the son of a King andmy name is Ajib son of Kazib. When my father died I succeededhim. and I ruled and did justice and dealt fairly by all mylieges. I delighted in sea trips, for my capital stood on theshore, before which the ocean stretched far and wide. and nearhand were many great islands with sconces and garrisons in themidst of the main. My fleet numbered fifty merchantmen, and asmany yachts for pleasance, and an hundred and fifty sail readyfitted for holy war with the Unbelievers. It fortuned that I hada mind to enjoy myself on the islands aforesaid, so I took shipwith my people in ten keel. and, carrying with me a month'svictual, I set out on a twenty days' voyage. But one night a headwind struck us, and the sea rose against us with huge waves. thebillows sorely buffetted us and a dense darkness settled roundus. We gave ourselves up for lost and I said, "Whoso endangerethhis days, e'en an he 'scape deserveth no praise." Then we prayedto Allah and besought Him. but the storm blasts ceased not toblow against us nor the surges to strike us till morning brokewhen the gale fell, the seas sank to mirrory stillness and thesun shone upon us kindly clear. Presently we made an island wherewe landed and cooked somewhat of food, and ate heartily and tookour rest for a couple of days. Then we set out again and sailedother twenty days, the seas broadening and the land shrinking.Presently the current ran counter to us, and we found ourselvesin strange waters, where the Captain had lost his reckoning, andwas wholly bewildered in this sea. so said we to the look outman, "Get thee to the mast head and keep thine eyesopen." He swarmed up the mast and looked out and cried aloud, "ORais, I espy to starboard something dark, very like a fishfloating on the face of the sea, and to larboard there is a loomin the midst of the main, now black and now bright." When theCaptain heard the look out's words he dashed his turband on thedeck and plucked out his beard and beat his face saying, "Goodnews indeed! we be all dead men. not one of us can be saved." Andhe fell to weeping and all of us wept for his weeping and alsofor our lives. and I said, "O Captain, tell us what it is thelook out saw." "O my Prince," answered he, "know that we lost ourcourse on the night of the storm, which was followed on themorrow by a two days' calm during which we made no way. and wehave gone astray eleven days reckoning from that night, withne'er a wind to bring us back to our true course. Tomorrow bythe end of the day we shall come to a mountain of black stone,highs the Magnet Mountain. for thither the currents carryus willy nilly. As soon as we are under its lea, the ship's sideswill open and every nail in plank will fly out and cleave fast tothe mountain. for that Almighty Allah hath gifted the loadstonewith a mysterious virtue and a love for iron, by reason whereofall which is iron travelleth towards it. and on this mountain ismuch iron, how much none knoweth save the Most High, from themany vessels which have been lost there since the days of yore.The bright spot upon its summit is a dome of yellow laton fromAndalusia, vaulted upon ten columns. and on its crown is ahorseman who rideth a horse of brass and holdeth in hand a lanceof laton. and there hangeth on his bosom a tablet of lead gravenwith names and talismans." And he presently added, "And, O King,none destroyeth folk save the rider on that steed, nor will theegromancy be dispelled till he fall from his horse.''Then, O my lady, the Captain wept with exceeding weeping and weall made sure of death doom and each and every one of usfarewelled his friend and charged him with his last will andtestament in case he might be saved. We slept not that night andin the morning we found ourselves much nearer the LoadstoneMountain, whither the waters crave us with a violent send. Whenthe ships were close under its lea they opened and the nails flewout and all the iron in them sought the Magnet Mountain and cloveto it like a network. so that by the end of the day we were allstruggling in the waves round about the mountain. Some of us weresaved, but more were drowned and even those who had escaped knewnot one another, so stupefied were they by the beating of thebillows and the raving of the winds. As for me, O my lady, Allah(be His name exalted!) preserved my life that I might sufferwhatso He willed to me of hardship, misfortune and calamity. forI scrambled upon a plank from one of the ships, and the wind andwaters threw it at the feet of the Mountain. There I found apracticable path leading by steps carven out of the rock to thesummit, and I called on the name of Allah Almighty" AndShahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say herpermitted say.When it was the Fifteenth Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that thethird Kalandar said to the lady (the rest of the party sittingfast bound and the slaves standing with swords drawn over theirheads): And after calling on the name of Almighty Allah andpassionately beseeching Him, I breasted the ascent, clinging tothe steps and notches hewn in the stone, and mounted little bylittle. And the Lord stilled the wind and aided me in the ascent,so that I succeeded in reaching the summit. There I found noresting place save the dome, which I entered, joying withexceeding joy at my escape. and made the Wuzu ablutionand prayed a two bow prayer, a thanksgiving to God for mypreservation. Then I fell asleep under the dome, and heard in mydream a mysterious Voice saying, "O son of Khazib! whenthou wakest from thy sleep dig under thy feet and thou shalt finda bow of brass and three leaden arrows, inscribed with talismansand characts. Take the bow and shoot the arrows at the horsemanon the dome top and free mankind from this sore calamity. Whenthou hast shot him he shall fall into the sea, and the horse willalso drop at thy feet: then bury it in the place of the bow. Thisdone, the main will swell and rise till it is level with themountain head, and there will appear on it a skiff carrying a manof laton (other than he thou shalt have shot) holding in his handa pair of paddles. He will come to thee and do thou embark withhim but beware of saying Bismillah or of otherwise naming AllahAlmighty. He will row thee for a space of ten days, till he bringthee to certain Islands called the Islands of Safety, and thencethou shalt easily reach a port and find those who will conveythee to thy native land. and all this shall be fulfilled to theeso thou call not on the name of Allah." Then I started up from mysleep in joy and gladness and, hastening to do the bidding of themysterious Voice, found the bow and arrows and shot at thehorseman and tumbled him into the main, whilst the horse droppedat my feet. so I took it and buried it. Presently the sea surgedup and rose till it reached the top of the mountain. nor had Ilong to wait ere I saw a skiff in the offing coming towards me. Igave thanks to Allah. and, when the skiff came up to me, I sawtherein a man of brass with a tablet of lead on his breastinscribed with talismans and characts. and I embarked withoututtering a word. The boatman rowed on with me through the firstday and the second and the third, in all ten whole days, till Icaught sight of the Islands of Safety. whereat I joyed withexceeding joy and for stress of gladness exclaimed, "Allah!Allah! In the name of Allah! There is no god but the God andAllah is Almighty.'' Thereupon the skiff forthwith upsetand cast me upon the sea. then it righted and sank deep into thedepths. Now I am a fair swimmer, so I swam the whole day tillnightfall, when my forearms and shoulders were numbed withfatigue and I felt like to die. so I testified to my faith,expecting naught but death. The sea was still surging under theviolence of the winds, and presently there came a billow like ahillock. and, bearing me up high in air, threw me with a longcast on dry land, that His will might be fulfilled. I crawled upthe beach and doffing my raiment wrung it out to dry and spreadit in the sunshine: then I lay me down and slept the whole night.As soon as it was day, I donned my clothes and rose to lookwhither I should walk. Presently I came to a thicket of lowtrees. and, making a cast round it, found that the spot whereon Istood was an islet, a mere holm, girt on all sides by the ocean.whereupon I said to myself, "Whatso freeth me from one greatcalamity casteth me into a greater!" But while I was pondering mycase and longing for death behold, I saw afar off a ship makingfor the island. so I clomb a tree and hid myself among thebranches. Presently the ship anchored and landed ten slaves,blackamoors, bearing iron hoes and baskets, who walked on tillthey reached the middle of the island. Here they dug deep intothe ground, until they uncovered a plate of metal which theylifted, thereby opening a trap door. After this they returned tothe ship and thence brought bread and flour, honey and fruits,clarified butter, leather bottles containing liquors andmany household stuffs. also furniture, table service and mirrorsrugs, carpets and in fact all needed to furnish a dwelling. andthey kept going to and fro, and descending by the trap door, tillthey had transported into the dwelling all that was in the ship.After this the slaves again went on board and brought back withthem garments as rich as may be, and in the midst of them came anold, old man, of whom very little was left, for Time had dealthardly and harshly with him, and all that remained of him was abone wrapped in a rag of blue stuff through which the windswhistled west and east. As saith the poet of him: Time gars me tremble Ah, how sore the baulk! While Time inpride of strength cloth ever stalk:Time was I walked nor ever felt I tired, Now am I tired albe Inever walk!And the Shaykh held by the hand a youth cast in beauty's mould,all elegance and perfect grace. so fair that his comelinessdeserved to be proverbial. for he was as a green bough or thetender young of the roe, ravishing every heart with hisloveliness and subduing every soul with his coquetry and amorousways. It was of him the poet spake when he said: Beauty they brought with him to make compare, But Beautyhung her head in shame and care:Quoth' they, "O Beauty, hast thou seen his like?" And Beautycried, "His like? not anywhere!"They stinted not their going, O my lady, till all went down bythe trap door and did not reappear for an hour, or rather more.at the end of which time the slaves and the old man came upwithout the youth and, replacing the iron plate and carefullyclosing the door slab as it was before, they returned to the shipand made sail and were lost to my sight. When they turned away todepart, I came down from the tree and, going to the place I hadseen them fill up, scraped off and removed the earth. and inpatience possessed my soul till I had cleared the whole of itaway. Then appeared the trap door which was of wood, in shape andsize like a millstone. and when I lifted it up it disclosed awinding staircase of stone. At this I marvelled and, descendingthe steps till I reached the last, found a fair hall, spread withvarious kinds of carpets and silk stuffs, wherein was a youthsitting upon a raised couch and leaning back on a round cushionwith a fan in his hand and nosegays and posies of sweet scentedherbs and flowers before him. but he was alone and not asoul near him in the great vault. When he saw me he turned pale.but I saluted him courteously and said, "Set thy mind at ease andcalm thy fears. no harm shall come near thee. I am a man likethyself and the son of a King to boot. whom the decrees ofDestiny have sent to bear thee company and cheer thee in thyloneliness. But now tell me, what is thy story and what causeththee to dwell thus in solitude under the ground?" When he wasassured that I was of his kind and no Jinni, he rejoiced and hisfine colour returned. and, making me draw near to him he said, "Omy brother, my story is a strange story and 'tis this. My fatheris a merchant jeweller possessed of great wealth, who hath whiteand black slaves travelling and trading on his account in shipsand on camels, and trafficking with the most distant cities. buthe was not blessed with a child, not even one. Now on a certainnight he dreamed a dream that he should be favoured with a son,who would be short lived. so the morning dawned on my fatherbringing him woe and weeping. On the following night my motherconceived and my father noted down the date of her becomingpregnant. Her time being fulfilled she bare me. whereatmy father rejoiced and made banquets and called together theneighbors and fed the Fakirs and the poor, for that he had beenblessed with issue near the end of his days. Then he assembledthe astrologers and astronomers who knew the places of theplanets, and the wizards and wise ones of the time, and menlearned in horoscopes and nativities, and they drew outmy birth scheme and said to my father, "Thy son shall live tofifteen years, but in his fifteenth there is a sinister aspect.an he safely tide it over he shall attain a great age. And thecause that threateneth him with death is this. In the Sea ofPeril standeth the Mountain Magnet hight. on whose summit is ahorseman of yellow laton seated on a horse also of brass andbearing on his breast a tablet of lead. Fifty days after thisrider shall fall from his steed thy son will die and his slayerwill be he who shoots down the horseman, a Prince named Ajib sonof King Khazib." My father grieved with exceeding grief to hearthese words. but reared me in tenderest fashion and educated meexcellently well until my fifteenth year was told. Ten days agonews came to him that the horseman had fallen into the sea and hewho shot him down was named Ajib son of King Khazib. My fatherthereupon wept bitter tears at the need of parting with me andbecame like one possessed of a Jinni. However, being in mortalfear for me, he built me this place under the earth. and,stocking it with all required for the few days still remaining,he brought me hither in a ship and left me here. Ten are alreadypast and, when the forty shall have gone by without danger to me,he will come and take me away. for he hath done all this only infear of Prince Ajib. Such, then, is my story and the cause of myloneliness." When I heard his history I marvelled and said in mymind, "I am the Prince Ajib who hath done all this. but as Allahis with me I will surely not slay him!" So said I to him, "O mylord, far from thee be this hurt and harm and then, please Allah,thou shalt not suffer cark nor care nor aught disquietude, for Iwill tarry with thee and serve thee as a servant, and then wendmy ways. and after having borne thee company during the fortydays, I will go with thee to thy home where thou shalt give me anescort of some of thy Mamelukes with whom I may journey back tomy own city. and the Almighty shall requite thee for me." He wasglad to hear these words, when I rose and lighted a large waxcandle and trimmed the ramps end the three lanterns. and I set onmeat and drink and sweetmeats. We ate and drank and sat talkingover various matters till the greater part of the night was gone.when he lay down to rest and I covered him up and went to sleepmyself. Next morning I arose and warmed a little water, thenlifted him gently so as to awake him and brought him the warmwater wherewith he washed his face and said to me,"Heaven requite thee for me with every blessing, O youth! ByAllah, if I get quit of this danger and am saved from him whosename is Ajib bin Khazib, I will make my father reward thee andsend thee home healthy and wealthy. and, if I die, then myblessing be upon thee." I answered, "May the day never dawn onwhich evil shall betide thee. and may Allah make my last daybefore thy last day!" Then I set before him somewhat of food andwe ate. and I got ready perfumes for fumigating the hall,wherewith he was pleased. Moreover I made him a Mankalah cloth. and we played and ate sweetmeats and we playedagain and took our pleasure till nightfall, when I rose andlighted the lamps, and set before him somewhat to eat, and sattelling him stories till the hours of darkness were far spent.Then he lay down to rest and I covered him up and rested also.And thus I continued to do, O my lady, for days and nights andaffection for him took root in my heart and my sorrow was eased,and I said to myself, "The astrologers lied when theypredicted that he should be slain by Ajib bin Khazib: by Allah, Iwill not slay him." I ceased not ministering to him andconversing and carousing with him and telling him all mannertales for thirty nine days. On the fortieth night theyouth rejoiced and said, "O my brother, Alhamdo, lillah! praisebe to Allah who hath preserved me from death and this is by thyblessing and the blessing of thy coming to me and I pray God thatHe restore thee to thy native land. But now, O my brother, Iwould thou warm me some water for the Ghusl ablution and do thoukindly bathe me and change my clothes." I replied, "With love andgladness." and I heated water in plenty and carrying it in to himwashed his body all over the washing of health, with mealof lupins and rubbed him well and changed his clothes andspread him a high bed whereon he lay down to rest, being drowsyafter bathing. Then said he, "O my brother, cut me up a watermelon, and sweeten it with a little sugar candy." So Iwent to the store room and bringing out a fine water melon Ifound there, set it on a platter and laid it before him saying,"O my master hast thou not a knife?" "Here it is," answered he,"over my head upon the high shelf." So I got up in haste andtaking the knife drew it from its sheath. but my foot slipped instepping down and I fell heavily upon the youth holding in myhand the knife which hastened to fulfil what had been written onthe Day that decided the destinies of man, and buried itself, asif planted, in the youth's heart. He died on the instant. When Isaw that he was slain and knew that I had slain him, maugremyself, I cried out with an exceeding loud and bitter cry andbeat my face and rent my raiment and said, "Verily we be Allah'sand unto Him we be returning, O Moslems! O folk fain of Allah!there remained for this youth but one day of the forty dangerousdays which the astrologers and the learned had foretold for him.and the predestined death of this beautiful one was to be at myhand. Would Heaven I had not tried to cut the watermelon. Whatdire misfortune is this I must bear fief or loath? What adisaster! What an affliction! O Allah mine, I implore thy pardonand declare to Thee my innocence of his death. But what Godwilleth let that come to pass.'' And Shahrazad perceivedthe dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Sixteenth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Ajib thuscontinued his tale to the lady: When I was certified that I hadslain him, I arose and ascending the stairs replaced the trap door and covered it with earth as before. Then I looked outseawards and saw the ship cleaving the waters and making for theisland, wherefore I was afeard and said, "The moment they comeand see the youth done to death, they will know 'twas I who slewhim and will slay me without respite." So I climbed up into ahigh tree and concealed myself among its leaves. and hardly had Idone so when the ship anchored and the slaves landed with theancient man, the youth's father, and made direct for the placeand when they removed the earth they were surprised to see itsoft. Then they raised the trap door and went down andfound the youth lying at full length, clothed in fair newgarments, with a face beaming after the bath, and the knife deepin his heart. At the sight they shrieked and wept and beat theirfaces, loudly cursing the murderer. whilst a swoon came over theShaykh so that the slaves deemed him dead, unable to survive hisson. At last they wrapped the slain youth in his clothes andcarried him up and laid him on the ground covering him with ashroud of silk. Whilst they were making for the ship the old manrevived. and, gazing on his son who was stretched out, fell onthe ground and strewed dust over his head and smote his face andplucked out his beard. and his weeping redoubled as he thought ofhis murdered son and he swooned away once more. After awhile aslave went and fetched a strip of silk whereupon they lay the oldman and sat down at his head. All this took place and I was onthe tree above them watching everything that came to pass. and myheart became hoary before my head waxed grey, for the hard lotwhich was mine, and for the distress and anguish I had undergone,and I fell to reciting: "How many a joy by Allah's will hath fled With flight escapingsight of wisest head!How many a sadness shall begin the day, Yet grow rightgladsome ere the day is sped!How many a weal trips on the heels of ill, Causing themourner's heart with joy to thrill!"But the old man, O my lady, ceased not from his swoon till nearsunset, when he came to himself and, looking upon his dead son,he recalled what had happened, and how what he had dreaded hadcome to pass. and he beat his face and head and recited thesecouplets: "Racked is my heart by parting fro' my friends And two rillsever fro' my eyelids flow:With them went forth my hopes, Ah, well away! Whatshift remaineth me to say or do?Would I had never looked upon their sight, What shift, fairsirs, when paths e'er strainer grow?What charm shall calm my pangs when this wise burn Longingsof love which in my vitals glow?Would I had trod with them the road of Death! Ne'er had befelus twain this parting blow:Allah: I pray the Truthful show me Roth And mix our lives norpart them evermo'e!How blest were we as 'death one roof we dwelt Conjoined injoys nor recking aught of woe.Till Fortune shot us pith the severance shaft. Ah who shallpatient bear such parting throe?And dart of Death struck down amid the tribe The age's pearlthat Morn saw brightest show:I cried the while his case took speech and said:  Would Heaven,my son, Death mote his doom foreslow!Which be the readiest road wi' thee to meet My Son! for whom Iwould my soul bestow?If sun I call him no! the sun cloth set. If moon I call him,wane the moons. Ah no!O sad mischance o' thee, O doom of days, Thy place none otherlove shall ever know:Thy sire distracted sees thee, but despairs By wit or wisdomFate to overthrow:Some evil eye this day hath cast its spell And foul befal himas it foul befel!"Then he sobbed a single sob and his soul fled his flesh. Theslaves shrieked aloud, "Alas, our lord!" and showered dust ontheir heads and redoubled their weeping and wailing. Presentlythey carried their dead master to the ship side by side with hisdead son and, having transported all the stuff from the dwellingto the vessel, set sail and disappeared from mine eyes. Idescended from the tree and, raising the trap door, went downinto the underground dwelling where everything reminded me of theyouth. and I looked upon the poor remains of him and beganrepeating these verses: "Their tracks I see, and pine with pain and pang And ondeserted hearths I weep and yearn:And Him I pray who doomed them depart Some day vouchsafethe boon of safe return.''Then, O my lady, I went up again by the trap door, and every dayI used to wander round about the island and every night Ireturned to the underground hall. Thus I lived for a month, tillat last, looking at the western side of the island, I observedthat every day the tides ebbed, leaving shallow water for whichthe flow did not compensate. and by the end of the month the seashowed dry land in that direction. At this I rejoiced makingcertain of my safety. so I arose and fording what little was leftof the water got me to the mainland, where I fell in with greatheaps of loose sand in which even a camel's hoof would sink up tothe knee. However I emboldened my soul and wading throughthe sand behold, a fire shone from afar burning with a brazinglight. So I made for it hoping haply to find succour, andbroke out into these verses: "Belike Fortune may her bridle turn And Time bring wealalthough he's jealous hight.Forward my hopes, and further all my needs, And passed illswith present weals requite."And when I drew near the fire aforesaid lo! it was a palace withgates of copper burnished red which, when the rising sun shonethereon, gleamed and glistened from afar showing what had seemedto me a fire. I rejoiced in the sight, and sat down over againstthe gate, but I was hardly settled in my seat before there met meten young men clothed in sumptuous gear and all were blind of theleft eye which appeared as plucked out. They were accompanied bya Shaykh, an old, old man, and much I marvelled at theirappearance, and their all being blind of the same eye. When theysaw me, they saluted me with the Salam and asked me of my caseand my history. whereupon I related to them all what had befallenme, and what full measure of misfortune was mine. Marvelling atmy tale they took me to the mansion, where I saw ranged round thehall ten couches each with its blue bedding and coverlet of bluestuff and amiddlemost stood a smaller couch furnishedlike them with blue and nothing else. As we entered each of theyouths took his seat on his own couch and the old man seatedhimself upon the smaller one in the middle saying to me, "Oyouth, sit thee down on the floor and ask not of our case nor ofthe loss of our eyes." Presently he rose up and set before eachyoung man some meat in a charger and drink in a large mazer,treating me in like manner. and after that they sat questioningme concerning my adventures and what had betided me: and I kepttelling them my tale till the night was far spent. Then said theyoung men, "O our Shaykh, wilt not thou set before us ourordinary? The time is come." He replied, "With love andgladness," and rose and entering a closet disappeared, butpresently returned bearing on his head ten trays each coveredwith a strip of blue stuff. He set a tray before each youth and,lighting ten wax candles, he stuck one upon each tray, and drewoff the covers and lo! under them was naught but ashes andpowdered charcoal and kettle soot. Then all the young men tuckedup their sleeves to the elbows and fell a weeping and wailing andthey blackened their faces and smeared their clothes andbuffetted their brows and beat their breasts, continuallyexclaiming, "We were sitting at our ease but our frowardnessbrought us unease! " They ceased not to do this till dawn drewnigh, when the old man rose and heated water for them. and theywashed their faces, and donned other and clean clothes. Now whenI saw this, O my lady, for very wonderment my senses left me andmy wits went wild and heart and head were full of thought, till Iforgot what had betided me and I could not keep silence feeling Ifain must speak out and question them of these strangenesses. soI said to them, "How come ye to do this after we have been soopen hearted and frolicksome? Thanks be to Allah ye be all soundand sane, yet actions such as these befit none but mad men orthose possessed of an evil spirit. I conjure you by all that isdearest to you, why stint ye to tell me your history, and thecause of your losing your eyes and your blackening your faceswith ashes and soot?" Hereupon they turned to me and said, "Oyoung man, hearken not to thy youthtide's suggestions andquestion us no questions." Then they slept and I with them andwhen they awoke the old man brought us somewhat of food. and,after we had eaten and the plates and goblets had been removed,they sat conversing till night fall when the old man rose and litthe wax candles and lamps and set meat and drink before us. Afterwe had eaten and drunken we sat conversing and carousing incompanionage till the noon of night, when they said to the oldman, "Bring us our ordinary, for the hour of sleep is at hand!"So he rose and brought them the trays of soot and ashes. and theydid as they had done on the preceding night, nor more, nor less.I abode with them after this fashion for the space of a monthduring which time they used to blacken their faces with ashesevery night, and to wash and change their raiment when the mornwas young. and I but marvelled the more and my scruples andcuriosity increased to such a point that I had to forego evenfood and drink. At last, I lost command of myself, for my heartwas aflame with fire unquenchable and lowe unconcealable and Isaid, "O young men, will ye not relieve my trouble and acquaintme with the reason of thus blackening your faces and the meaningof your words: We were sitting at our ease but our frowardnessbrought us unease?" Quoth they "'Twere better to keep thesethings secret." Still I was bewildered by their doings to thepoint of abstaining from eating and drinking and, at last whollylosing patience, quoth I to them, There is no help for it: yemust acquaint me with what is the reason of these doings." Theyreplied, "We kept our secret only for thy good: to gratify theewill bring down evil upon thee and thou wilt become a monoculareven as we are." I repeated "There is no help for it and, if yewill not, let me leave you and return to mine own people and beat rest from seeing these things, for the proverb saith: Better ye 'bide and I take my leave: For what eye sees notheart shall never grieve."Thereupon they said to me, "Remember, O youth, that should illbefal thee we will not again harbour thee nor suffer thee toabide amongst us." and bringing a ram they slaughtered it andskinned it. Lastly they gave me a knife saying, "Take this skinand stretch thyself upon it and we will sew it around thee,presently there shall come to thee a certain bird, hightRukh, that will catch thee up in his pounces and towerhigh in air and then set thee down on a mountain. When thoufeelest he is no longer flying, rip open the pelt with this bladeand come out of it. the bird will be scared and will fly away andleave thee free. After this fare for half a day, and the marchwill place thee at a palace wondrous fair to behold, toweringhigh in air and builded of Khalanj, lign aloes andsandal wood, plated with red gold, and studded with all manneremeralds and costly gems fit for seal rings. Enter it and thoushalt win to thy wish for we have all entered that palace. andsuch is the cause of our losing our eyes and of our blackeningour faces. Were we now to tell thee our stories it would take toolong a time. for each and every of us lost his left eye by anadventure of his own." I rejoiced at their words and they didwith me as they said. and the bird Rukh bore me off end set medown on the mountain. Then I came out of the skin and walked ontill I reached the palace. The door stood open as I entered andfound myself in a spacious and goodly hall, wide exceedingly,even as a horse course. and around it were an hundred chamberswith doors of sandal and aloes woods plated with red gold andfurnished with silver rings by way of knockers. At thehead or upper end of the hall I saw forty damsels,sumptuously dressed and ornamented and one and all bright asmoons. none could ever tire of gazing upon them and all so lovelythat the most ascetic devotee on seeing them would become theirslave and obey their will. When they saw me the whole bevy cameup to me and said "Welcome and well come and good cheerto thee, O our lord! This whole month have we been expectingthee. Praised be Allah who hath sent us one who is worthy of us,even as we are worthy of him!" Then they made me sit down upon ahigh divan and said to me, "This day thou art our lord andmaster, and we are thy servants and thy hand maids, so order usas thou wilt." And I marvelled at their case. Presently one ofthem arose and set meat before me and I ate and they ate with me.whilst others warmed water and washed my hands and feet andchanged my clothes and others made ready sherbets and gave us todrink. and all gathered around me being full of joy and gladnessat my coming. Then they sat down and conversed with me tillnightfall, when five of them arose and laid the trays and spreadthem with flowers and fragrant herbs and fruits, fresh and dried,and confections in profusion. At last they brought out a finewine service with rich old wine. and we sat down to drink andsome sang songs and others played the lute and psaltery andrecorders and other instruments, and the bowl went merrily round.Hereupon such gladness possessed me that I forgot the sorrows ofthe world one and all and said, "This is indeed life. O sad that'tis fleeting!" I enjoyed their company till the time came forrest. and our heads were all warm with wine, when they said, "Oour lord, choose from amongst us her who shall be thy bed fellowthis night and not lie with thee again till forty days be past."So I chose a girl fair of face and perfect in shape, with eyesKohl edged by nature's hand. hair long and jet black withslightly parted teeth and joining brows: 'twas as if shewere some limber graceful branchlet or the slender stalk of sweetbasil to amaze and to bewilder man's fancy, even as the poet saidof such an one To even her with greeny bough were vain Fool he who finds herbeauties in the roe:When hath the roe those lively lovely limbs Or honey dews thoselips alone bestow?Those eyne, soul piercing eyne, which slay with love, Whichbind the victim by their shafts laid low?My heart to second childhood they beguiled No wonder: lovesick man again is child!And I repeated to her the maker's words who said: "None other charms but thine shall greet mine eyes, Nor otherimage can my heart surprise:Thy love, my lady, captives all my thoughts And on that loveI'll die and I'll arise.So I lay with her that night. none fairer I ever knew. and, whenit was morning, the damsels carried me to the Hammam bath andbathed me and robed me in fairest apparel. Then they served upfood, and we ate and drank and the cup went round till nightfallwhen I chose from among them one fair of form and face, soft sided and a model of grace, such an one as the poet describedwhen he said. On her fair bosom caskets twain I scanned, Sealed fast withmusk seals lovers to withstandWith arrowy glances stand on guard her eyes, Whose shaftswould shoot who dares put forth a hand.With her I spent a most goodly night. and, to be brief, O mymistress, I remained with them in all solace and delight of life,eating and drinking, conversing and carousing and every nightlying with one or other of them. But at the head of the new yearthey came to me in tears and bade me farewell, weeping and cryingout and clinging about me: whereat I wondered and said, "What maybe the matter? verily you break my heart!" They exclaimed, "WouldHeaven we had never known thee. for, though we have companieswith many, yet never saw we a pleasanter than thou or a morecourteous." And they wept again. "But tell me more clearly,"asked I, "what causeth this weeping which maketh mygall bladder like to burst." and they answered, "O ourlord and master, it is severance which maketh us weep. and thou,and thou only, art the cause of our tears. If thou hearken to uswe need never be parted and if thou hearken not we part for ever.but our hearts tell us that thou wilt not listen to our words andthis is the cause of our tears and cries." "Tell me how the casestandeth?" "Know, O our lord, that we are the daughters of Kingswho have met here and have lived together for years. and once inevery year we are perforce absent for forty days. and afterwardswe return and abide here for the rest of the twelve month eatingand drinking and taking our pleasure and enjoying delights: weare about to depart according to our custom. and we fear lestafter we be gone thou contraire our charge and disobey ourinjunctions. Here now we commit to thee the keys of the palacewhich containeth forty chambers and thou mayest open of thesethirty and nine, but beware (and we conjure thee by Allah and bythe lives of us!) lest thou open the fortieth door, for thereinis that which shall separate us for ever." Quoth I,"Assuredly I will not open it, if it contain the cause ofseverance from you." Then one among them came up to me andfalling on my neck wept and recited these verses. "If Time unite us after absent while, The world harsh frowningon our lot shall smileAnd if thy semblance deign adorn mine eyes, I'llpardon Time past wrongs and by gone guile."And I recited the following: "When drew she near to bid adieu with heart unstrung, Whilecare and longing on that day her bosom wrungWet pearls she wept and mine like red carnelians rolled And,joined in sad riviere, around her neck they hung."When I saw her weeping I said, "By Allah I will never open thatfortieth door, never and no wise!" and I bade her farewell.Thereupon all departed flying away like birds. signalling withtheir hands farewells as they went and leaving me alone in thepalace. When evening drew near I opened the door of the firstchamber and entering it found myself in a place like one of thepleasaunces of Paradise. It was a garden with trees of freshestgreen and ripe fruits of yellow sheen. and its birds were singingclear and keen and rills ran wimpling through the fair terrene.The sight and sounds brought solace to my sprite. and I walkedamong the trees, and I smelt the breath of the flowers on thebreeze. and heard the birdies sing their melodies hymning theOne, the Almighty in sweetest litanies. and I looked upon theapple whose hue is parcel red and parcel yellow. as said thepoet: Apple whose hue combines in union mellow My fair's red cheek,her hapless lover's yellow.Then I looked upon the quince, and inhaled its fragrance which toshame musk and ambergris, even as the poet hath said :Quince every taste conjoins. in her are found Gifts which forqueen of fruits the Quince have crownedHer taste is wine, her scent the waft of musk. Pure gold herhue, her shape the Moon's fair round.Then I looked upon the pear whose taste surpasseth sherbet andsugar. and the apricot whose beauty striketh the eye withadmiration, as if she were a polished ruby. Then I went out ofthe place and locked the door as it was before. When it was themorrow I opened the second door. and entering found myself in aspacious plain set with tall date palms and watered by a runningstream whose banks were shrubbed with bushes of rose and jasmine,while privet and eglantine, oxe eye, violet and lily, narcissus,origane and the winter gilliflower carpeted the borders. and thebreath of the breeze swept over these sweet smelling growthsdiffusing their delicious odours right and left, perfuming theworld and filling my soul with delight. After taking my pleasurethere awhile I went from it and, having closed the door as it wasbefore, opened the third door wherein I saw a high open hallpargetted with parti coloured marbles and pietra dura of priceand other precious stones, and hung with cages of sandal wood andeagle wood. full of birds which made sweet music, such as theThousand voiced, and the cushat, the merle, the turtle dove and the Nubian ring dove. My heart was filled with pleasurethereby. my grief was dispelled and I slept in that aviary tilldawn. Then I undocked the door of the fourth chamber and thereinfound a grand saloon with forty smaller chambers giving upon it.All their doors stood open: so I entered and found them full ofpearls and jacinths and beryls and emeralds and corals and carbuncles, and all manner precious gems and jewels, such as tongueof man may not describe. My thought was stunned at the sight andI said to myself, "These be things methinks united which couldnot be found save in the treasuries of a King of Kings, nor couldthe monarchs of the world have collected the like of these!" Andmy heart dilated and my sorrows ceased, "For," quoth I, "nowverily am I the monarch of the age, since by Allah's grace thisenormous wealth is mine. and I have forty damsels under my handnor is there any to claim them save myself." Then I gave not overopening place after place until nine and thirty days were passedand in that time I had entered every chamber except that onewhose door the Princesses had charged me not to open. But mythoughts, O my mistress, ever ran on that forbiddenfortieth and Satan urged me to open it for my ownundoing. nor had I patience to forbear, albeit there wanted ofthe trysting time but a single day. So I stood before the chamberaforesaid and, after a moment's hesitation, opened the door whichwas plated with red gold, and entered. I was met by a perfumewhose like I had never before smelt. and so sharp and subtle wasthe odour that it made my senses drunken as with strong wine, andI fell to the ground in a fainting fit which lasted a full hour.When I came to myself I strengthened my heart and, entering,found myself in a chamber whose floor was bespread with saffronand blazing with light from branched candelabra of gold and lampsfed with costly oils, which diffused the scent of musk andambergris. I saw there also two great censers each big as amazer bowl, flaming with lign aloes, nadd perfume, ambergris and honied scents. and the place wasfull of their fragrance. Presently, O my lady, I espied a noblesteed, black as the murks of night when murkiest, standing, readysaddled and bridled (and his saddle was of red gold) before twomangers, one of clear crystal wherein was husked sesame, and theother also of crystal containing water of the rose scented withmusk. When I saw this I marvelled and said to myself, "Doubtlessin this animal must be some wondrous mystery." and Satan cozenedme, so I led him without the palace end mounted him, but he wouldnot stir from his place. So I hammered his sides with my heels,but he moved not, and then I took the rein whip, andstruck him withal. When he felt the blow, he neighed a neigh witha sound like deafening thunder and, opening a pair ofwings flew up with me in the firmament of heaven farbeyond the eyesight of man. After a full hour of flight hedescended and alighted on a terrace roof and shaking me off hisback lashed me on the face with his tail and gouged out my lefteye causing it roll along my cheek. Then he flew away. I wentdown from the terrace and found myself again amongst the ten oneeyed youths sitting upon their ten couches with blue covers. andthey cried out when they saw me, "No welcome to thee, nor aughtof good cheer! We all lived of lives the happiest and we ate anddrank of the best. upon brocades and cloths of gold we took restand we slept with our heads on beauty's breast, but we could notawait one day to gain the delights of a year!" Quoth I, "Behold Ihave become one like unto you and now I would have you bring me atray full of blackness, wherewith to blacken my face, and receiveme into your society." "No, by Allah," quoth they, "thou shaltnot sojourn with us and now get thee hence!" So they drove meaway. Finding them reject me thus I foresaw that matters would gohard with me, and I remembered the many miseries which Destinyhad written upon my forehead. and I fared forth from among themheavy hearted and tearful eyed, repeating to myself these words,"I was sitting at mine ease but my frowardness brought me tounease." Then I shaved beard and mustachios and eye brows,renouncing the world, and wandered in Kalandar garb aboutAllah's earth. and the Almighty decreed safety for me till Iarrived at Baghdad, which was on the evening of this very night.Here I met these two other Kalandars standing bewildered. so Isaluted them saying, "I am a stranger!" and they answered, "Andwe likewise be strangers!" By the freak of Fortune we were liketo like, three Kalandars and three monoculars all blind of theleft eye. Such, O my lady, is the cause of the shearing of mybeard and the manner of my losing an eye. Said the lady to him,"Rub thy head and wend thy ways." but he answered, "By Allah, Iwill not go until I hear the stories of these others." Then thelady, turning towards the Caliph and Ja'afar and Masrur, said tothem, "Do ye also give an account of yourselves, you men!"Whereupon Ja'afar stood forth and told her what he had told theportress as they were entering the house. and when she heard hisstory of their being merchants and Mosul men who had outrun thewatch, she said, "I grant you your lives each for each sake, andnow away with you all." So they all went out and when they werein the street, quoth the Caliph to the Kalandars, "O company,whither go ye now, seeing that the morning hath not yet dawned?"Quoth they, "By Allah, O our lord, we know not where to go.""Come and pass the rest of the night with us," said the Caliphand, turning to Ja'afar, "Take them home with thee and tomorrowbring them to my presence that we may chronicle theiradventures." Ja'afar did as the Caliph bade him and the Commanderof the Faithful returned to his palace. but sleep gave no sign ofvisiting him that night and he lay awake pondering the mishaps ofthe three Kalandar princes and impatient to know the history ofthe ladies and the two black bitches. No sooner had morningdawned than he went forth and sat upon the throne of hissovereignty. and, turning to Ja'afar, after all his Grandees andOfficers of state were gathered together, he said, "Bring me thethree ladies and the two bitches and the three Kalandars." SoJa'afar fared forth and brought them all before him (and theladies were veiled). then the Minister turned to them and said inthe Caliph's name, "We pardon you your maltreatment of us andyour want of courtesy, in consideration of the kindness whichforewent it, and for that ye knew us not: now however I wouldhave you to know that ye stand in presence of the fifthof the sons of Abbas, Harun al Rashid, brother of Caliph Musa al Hadi, son of Al Mansur. son of Mohammed the brother of Al Saffahbin Mohammed who was first of the royal house. Speak ye thereforebefore him the truth and the whole truth!" When the ladies heardJa afar's words touching the Commander of the Faithful, theeldest came forward and said, "O Prince of True Believers, mystory is one which, were it graven with needle gravers upon theeye corners were a warner for whoso would be warned and anexample for whoso can take profit from example." And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Seventeenth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that she stoodforth before the Commander of the Faithful and began to tell