A man and a woman had no children, although they would have given theirlives to have some. They prayed for offspring, under any conditions. Itappeared that heaven had mercy on them, but when the time came, thenewborn was a female frog.Not letting themselves be distracted, the man and the woman raised her.They taught her music and all kinds of skills.Above all else the frog loved to sing, and she trained her voice andher range until one would think she was the best singer from the city.Other people had not seen the frog and thought indeed that she was anunknown singer and could not explain why she did not perform in public.One day the king's son passed by the house and heard the frog singing.He stopped and listened for a long time. He immediately fell in love withthe unknown singer and approached her father with a request for permissionto see her and speak with her, but the father refused.The prince heard her sing again and fell even more deeply in love withher. He demanded that her father give her to him in marriage. The fatherreplied that he would have to ask his daughter. The frog agreed under theconditions that she be taken to the royal castle in an enclosed carriageand that she be allowed to enter the bridal chamber without being seen.The prince, his curiosity even more aroused, accepted the conditions.On the appointed day the frog rode to the royal castle in a tightlyenclosed carriage and made her way to the splendid bridal chamber withoutbeing seen. She hid herself in one of the two beds that were there. Theprince came that evening and was astonished when he could not find hisbride. Disappointed, he went to bed.At midnight the frog crept out of the cushions and onto the prince'sbreast. Half asleep, he took the frog into his hand and threw her to thefloor. She hopped angrily down the steps and home.The next morning the prince was sorry that he had thrown the frog tothe floor, and he became sad and melancholy.Some time later he went back to the house. Hearing singing, he fellmadly in love and began courting his bride anew. The frog accepted, thistime without setting any conditions. She made a little carriage out ofcardboard, hitched a rooster to it, and drove it herself to the royalcastle.Three fairies were standing in the road. One of them had swallowed afishbone, which stuck in her throat and was causing her great pain. Whenthe three of them saw the frog driving by in her little carriage andcracking her whip so merrily, they all laughed out with joy. The fishbonedislodged itself from the one fairy's throat, freeing her suddenly of herpain.They approached the frog, and the first one said, "I will give you abeautiful carriage with horses and servants!" And in an instant a carriagewas there with horses and servants in beautiful livery.Then the second one said, "I will give you expensive clothes and goldand silver!" And in an instant it was all there, gleaming and shimmering,and it was such a joy.Then came the third fairy, the one who had been freed of the fishboneby laughing, and she said, "I will transform you!"In that instant the frog became a beautiful maiden. She graciouslythanked the three kind fairies and drove happily to the royal castle andto her jubilant and joyful wedding.