Floating in a basket on the River Nile, Princess Bathia, the daughterof Pharaoh, King of Egypt, found a tiny little water babe. PrincessBathia was a widow and had no children, and she was so delighted thatshe took the child home to the palace and brought it up as her own.She called the babe Moses.He was a pretty little boy, full of fun and frolic as he grew up, andhe became a favorite with everybody in the palace. Even the cruel KingPharaoh, who had ordered that all the Hebrew boy babes should bedrowned, loved to play with him. His ministers of state and magicians,however, frowned when they saw Moses, as soon as he could toddle andtalk, making a play mate of the king. They warned Pharaoh that it wasdangerous to give a strange child such privileges, but Princess Bathiaonly laughed at them. So did her mother, the queen, and King Pharaohtook no notice.When Moses was three years old, Princess Bathia gave a birthday partyin his honor. It was really a big banquet and was attended by the kingand queen and all the courtiers. Moses was seated at the head of thetable and his eyes opened very wide with wonderment at everything hesaw. It seemed such a ridiculous lot of solemn fuss to him. He wouldrather have played on the floor, or climbed on to the table, but ofcourse they would not allow him."What does all this mean?" he asked of the king who was seated next tohim. "Tell me," and he playfully pulled King Pharaoh's beard.The courtiers looked on horrified, and Bilam, the chief magician,cried out, "Beware, O king, this is not play.""Heed not these words, my father," said the princess. "Bilam is everwarning thee. If thou wert to take notice of all that he says, thouwouldst not have a moment's peace. Take our little babe on thy kneeand play with him."To please the princess, King Pharaoh did so, and Moses amused himselfby playing with the glittering jewels on his majesty's robes. Then helooked up and stared hard at the king's head."What is that?" he asked, pointing."That is the royal crown," answered Pharaoh."No it is not. it is only a funny hat," replied Moses."Beware," chimed in Bilam, solemnly."Let me put the hat on," said Moses, reaching up his little hands, andbefore they could stop him, he had taken the crown from the king'shead and had put it on his own.Princess Bathia and the queen laughed merrily, but Bilam looked verygrave."Your majesty," he said, in a voice trembling with passion, "this isnot the foolish play of a babe. This child, remember, is not as otherchildren. Came he not from the river? There is meaning in his action.Already does he seek to rob thee of thy royal crown. 'Tis a portent ofevil."Pharaoh thoughtfully stroked his beard."What sayeth Reuel?" he asked, turning to his second chief magician."I say the child is but a babe and that this action means nothing,"answered Reuel.The queen and the princess agreed with Reuel, who was their favorite,but Bilam would not allow the matter to pass lightly."I, Bilam, am chief of thy counselors," he said, "and deeply learnedin the mysteries of signs and portents. There is a meaning in allthings. Remember, O King, this child is of the Hebrews, and escapedthy decree. This play of his hath a meaning. Should he be permitted togrow up, he will rebel against thee and seek to destroy thy rule. Lethim be judged, O king.""Thy words are wise," said Pharaoh, who was himself annoyed withMoses, and he ordered three judges to try the child for his offence.Moses thought it was a new game and he clapped his hands gleefullywhen they took him to the court of justice and stood him in front ofthe judges. He heard Reuel plead on his behalf, but he did notunderstand it."I say he is but a babe and does things without meaning," Reuelexclaimed. "Put him to the test, and see if he knows the differencebetween fire and gold. Place before him a dish of fire and a dish ofjewels and gold. If he grasps the jewels, it will prove that he is noordinary child. if he places his hand to the fire, then shall we beassured he is merely a foolish babe.""So be it," said Bilam, "and if he grasps the jewels let hispunishment be instant death."Pharaoh and the judges agreed, and two dishes, one containing burningcoals and the other gold and precious stones were brought in andplaced before Moses. Everybody looked on keenly as Moses stared atthe dishes. Princess Bathia made signs to him, but Bilam ordered herto cease and it was Reuel who comforted her and dried her tears."Take my magic staff," he said, handing to her a stick that seemed tobe made of one large precious stone. "This was given to Adam when heleft the Garden of Eden and has been handed down to me through Enochand Noah, through Abraham and Jacob unto Joseph who left it in mykeeping. Take the staff and Moses will obey whatsoever be thy wish."The princess took the staff and pressed it to her lips."I wish," she said, "that my little water babe shall seize the burningcoals."Moses thrust his fingers into the fire and pulled out a glowing coal.With a cry, he put his fingers in his mouth to ease the pain andburned his tongue with the coal. Ever afterward he lisped.The princess snatched Moses and pressed him tightly to her bosom."Give me the magic stick," she said to Reuel, "so that I may guard andprotect the child.""Canst thou read this word?" asked Reuel, pointing to a word engravedon the staff."No," said the princess."Then it cannot be thine," answered Reuel. "Whosoever reads this namecan understand all things, even the thoughts of animals and birds.Fear not for Moses. In years to come this staff shall be his."And so it came to pass. Years afterward, when Moses was a man and fledfrom Egypt, he married a daughter of Reuel who became a Hebrew andtook the name of Jethro. Reuel planted the staff in his garden andMoses saw it. He read the magic word, and touching the staff it cameout of the ground into his hands. With this staff Moses performed thewonderful things in Egypt when he delivered the children of Israelfrom bondage, as is related in the Bible.