Once upon a time a strong and powerful Tzar ruled in a country faraway. And among his servants was a young archer, and this archer had ahorse a horse of power such a horse as belonged to the wonderful menof long ago a great horse with a broad chest, eyes like fire, andhoofs of iron. There are no such horses nowadays. They sleep with thestrong men who rode them, the bogatirs, until the time comes whenRussia has need of them. Then the great horses will thunder up fromunder the ground, and the valiant men leap from the graves in thearmour they have worn so long. The strong men will sit those horses ofpower, and there will be swinging of clubs and thunder of hoofs, andthe earth will be swept clean from the enemies of God and the Tzar. Somy grandfather used to say, and he was as much older than I as I amolder than you, little ones, and so he should know.Well, one day long ago, in the green time of the year, the youngarcher rode through the forest on his horse of power. The trees weregreen. there were little blue flowers on the ground under the trees.the squirrels ran in the branches, and the hares in the undergrowth.but no birds sang. The young archer rode along the forest path andlistened for the singing of the birds, but there was no singing. Theforest was silent, and the only noises in it were the scratching offour footed beasts, the dropping of fir cones, and the heavy stampingof the horse of power in the soft path."What has come to the birds?" said the young archer.He had scarcely said this before he saw a big curving feather lying inthe path before him. The feather was larger than a swan's, larger thanan eagle's. It lay in the path, glittering like a flame. for the sunwas on it, and it was a feather of pure gold. Then he knew why therewas no singing in the forest. For he knew that the fire bird had flownthat way, and that the feather in the path before him was a featherfrom its burning breast.The horse of power spoke and said, "Leave the golden feather where it lies. If you take it you will besorry for it, and know the meaning of fear."But the brave young archer sat on the horse of power and looked atthe golden feather, and wondered whether to take it or not. He had nowish to learn what it was to be afraid, but he thought, "If I take itand bring it to the Tzar my master, he will be pleased. and he willnot send me away with empty hands, for no Tzar in the world has afeather from the burning breast of the fire bird." And the more hethought, the more he wanted to carry the feather to the Tzar. And inthe end he did not listen to the words of the horse of power. He leaptfrom the saddle, picked up the golden feather of the fire bird,mounted his horse again, and galloped back through the green foresttill he came to the palace of the Tzar.He went into the palace, and bowed before the Tzar and said, "O Tzar, I have brought you a feather of the fire bird."The Tzar looked gladly at the feather, and then at the young archer."Thank you," says he. "but if you have brought me a feather of thefire bird, you will be able to bring me the bird itself. I should liketo see it. A feather is not a fit gift to bring to the Tzar. Bring thebird itself, or, I swear by my sword, your head shall no longer sitbetween your shoulders!"The young archer bowed his head and went out. Bitterly he wept, for heknew now what it was to be afraid. He went out into the courtyard,where the horse of power was waiting for him, tossing its head andstamping on the ground."Master," says the horse of power, "why do you weep?""The Tzar has told me to bring him the fire bird, and no man on earthcan do that," says the young archer, and he bowed his head on hisbreast."I told you," says the horse of power, "that if you took the featheryou would learn the meaning of fear. Well, do not be frightened yet,and do not weep. The trouble is not now. the trouble lies before you.Go to the Tzar and ask him to have a hundred sacks of maize scatteredover the open field, and let this be done at midnight."The young archer went back into the palace and begged the Tzar forthis, and the Tzar ordered that at midnight a hundred sacks of maizeshould be scattered in the open field.Next morning, at the first redness in the sky, the young archer rodeout on the horse of power, and came to the open field. The ground wasscattered all over with maize. In the middle of the field stood agreat oak with spreading boughs. The young archer leapt to the ground,took off the saddle, and let the horse of power loose to wander as hepleased about the field. Then he climbed up into the oak and hidhimself among the green boughs.The sky grew red and gold, and the sun rose. Suddenly there was anoise in the forest round the field. The trees shook and swayed, andalmost fell. There was a mighty wind. The sea piled itself into waveswith crests of foam, and the fire bird came flying from the other sideof the world. Huge and golden and flaming in the sun, it flew, droppeddown with open wings into the field, and began to eat the maize.The horse of power wandered in the field. This way he went, and that,but always he came a little nearer to the fire bird. Nearer and nearercame the horse. He came close up to the fire bird, and then suddenlystepped on one of its spreading fiery wings and pressed it heavily tothe ground. The bird struggled, flapping mightily with its fierywings, but it could not get away. The young archer slipped down fromthe tree, bound the fire bird with three strong ropes, swung it on hisback, saddled the horse, and rode to the palace of the Tzar.The young archer stood before the Tzar, and his back was bent underthe great weight of the fire bird, and the broad wings of the birdhung on either side of him like fiery shields, and there was a trailof golden feathers on the floor. The young archer swung the magicbird to the foot of the throne before the Tzar. and the Tzar was glad,because since the beginning of the world no Tzar had seen thefire bird flung before him like a wild duck caught in a snare.The Tzar looked at the fire bird and laughed with pride. Then helifted his eyes and looked at the young archer, and says he, "As you have known how to take the fire bird, you will know how tobring me my bride, for whom I have long been waiting. In the land ofNever, on the very edge of the world, where the red sun rises in flamefrom behind the sea, lives the Princess Vasilissa. I will marry nonebut her. Bring her to me, and I will reward you with silver and gold.But if you do not bring her, then, by my sword, your head will nolonger sit between your shoulders!"The young archer wept bitter tears, and went out into the courtyard,where the horse of power was, stamping the ground with its hoofs ofiron and tossing its thick mane."Master, why do you weep?" asked the horse of power."The Tzar has ordered me to go to the land of Never, and to bring backthe Princess Vasilissa.""Do not weep do not grieve. The trouble is not yet. the trouble is tocome. Go to the Tzar and ask him for a silver tent with a golden roof,and for all kinds of food and drink to take with us on the journey."The young archer went in and asked the Tzar for this, and the Tzargave him a silver tent with silver hangings and a gold embroideredroof, and every kind of rich wine and the tastiest of foods.Then the young archer mounted the horse of power and rode off to theland of Never. On and on he rode, many days and nights, and came atlast to the edge of the world, where the red sun rises in flame frombehind the deep blue sea.On the shore of the sea the young archer reined in the horse of power,and the heavy hoofs of the horse sank in the sand. He shaded his eyesand looked out over the blue water, and there was the PrincessVasilissa in a little silver boat, rowing with golden oars.The young archer rode back a little way to where the sand ended andthe green world began. There he loosed the horse to wander where hepleased, and to feed on the green grass. Then on the edge of theshore, where the green grass ended and grew thin and the sand began,he set up the shining tent, with its silver hangings and its goldembroidered roof. In the tent he set out the tasty dishes and the richflagons of wine which the Tzar had given him, and he sat himself downin the tent and began to regale himself, while he waited for thePrincess Vasilissa.The Princess Vasilissa dipped her golden oars in the blue water, andthe little silver boat moved lightly through the dancing waves. Shesat in the little boat and looked over the blue sea to the edge of theworld, and there, between the golden sand and the green earth, she sawthe tent standing, silver and gold in the sun. She dipped her oars,and came nearer to see it the better. The nearer she came the fairerseemed the tent, and at last she rowed to the shore and grounded herlittle boat on the golden sand, and stepped out daintily and came upto the tent. She was a little frightened, and now and again shestopped and looked back to where the silver boat lay on the sand withthe blue sea beyond it. The young archer said not a word, but went onregaling himself on the pleasant dishes he had set out there in thetent.At last the Princess Vasilissa came up to the tent and looked in.The young archer rose and bowed before her. Says he, "Good day to you, Princess! Be so kind as to come in and take breadand salt with me, and taste my foreign wines."And the Princess Vasilissa came into the tent and sat down with theyoung archer, and ate sweetmeats with him, and drank his health in agolden goblet of the wine the Tzar had given him. Now this wine washeavy, and the last drop from the goblet had no sooner trickled downher little slender throat than her eyes closed against her will, once,twice, and again."Ah me!" says the Princess, "it is as if the night itself had perchedon my eyelids, and yet it is but noon."And the golden goblet dropped to the ground from her little fingers,and she leant back on a cushion and fell instantly asleep. If she hadbeen beautiful before, she was lovelier still when she lay in thatdeep sleep in the shadow of the tent.Quickly the young archer called to the horse of power. Lightly helifted the Princess in his strong young arms. Swiftly he leapt withher into the saddle. Like a feather she lay in the hollow of his leftarm, and slept while the iron hoofs of the great horse thundered overthe ground.They came to the Tzar's palace, and the young archer leapt from thehorse of power and carried the Princess into the palace. Great was thejoy of the Tzar. but it did not last for long."Go, sound the trumpets for our wedding," he said to his servants."let all the bells be rung."The bells rang out and the trumpets sounded, and at the noise of thehorns and the ringing of the bells the Princess Vasilissa woke up andlooked about her."What is this ringing of bells," says she, "and this noise oftrumpets? And where, oh, where is the blue sea, and my little silverboat with its golden oars?" And the Princess put her hand to her eyes."The blue sea is far away," says the Tzar, "and for your little silverboat I give you a golden throne. The trumpets sound for our wedding,and the bells are ringing for our joy."But the Princess turned her face away from the Tzar. and there was nowonder in that, for he was old, and his eyes were not kind.And she looked with love at the young archer. and there was no wonderin that either, for he was a young man fit to ride the horse of power.The Tzar was angry with the Princess Vasilissa, but his anger was asuseless as his joy."Why, Princess," says he, "will you not marry me, and forget your bluesea and your silver boat?""In the middle of the deep blue sea lies a great stone," says thePrincess, "and under that stone is hidden my wedding dress. If Icannot wear that dress I will marry nobody at all."Instantly the Tzar turned to the young archer, who was waiting beforethe throne."Ride swiftly back," says he, "to the land of Never, where the red sunrises in flame. There do you hear what the Princess says? a greatstone lies in the middle of the sea. Under that stone is hidden herwedding dress. Ride swiftly. Bring back that dress, or, by my sword,your head shall no longer sit between your shoulders!"The young archer wept bitter tears, and went out into the courtyard,where the horse of power was waiting for him, champing its golden bit."There is no way of escaping death this time," he said."Master, why do you weep?" asked the horse of power."The Tzar has ordered me to ride to the land of Never, to fetch thewedding dress of the Princess Vasilissa from the bottom of the deepblue sea. Besides, the dress is wanted for the Tzar's wedding, and Ilove the Princess myself.""What did I tell you?" says the horse of power. "I told you thatthere would be trouble if you picked up the golden feather from thefire bird's burning breast. Well, do not be afraid. The trouble is notyet. the trouble is to come. Up! into the saddle with you, and awayfor the wedding dress of the Princess Vasilissa!"The young archer leapt into the saddle, and the horse of power, withhis thundering hoofs, carried him swiftly through the green forestsand over the bare plains, till they came to the edge of the world, tothe land of Never, where the red sun rises in flame from behind thedeep blue sea. There they rested, at the very edge of the sea.The young archer looked sadly over the wide waters, but the horse ofpower tossed its mane and did not look at the sea, but on the shore.This way and that it looked, and saw at last a huge lobster movingslowly, sideways, along the golden sand.Nearer and nearer came the lobster, and it was a giant among lobsters,the Tzar of all the lobsters. and it moved slowly along the shore,while the horse of power moved carefully and as if by accident, untilit stood between the lobster and the sea. Then, when the lobster cameclose by, the horse of power lifted an iron hoof and set it firmly onthe lobster's tail."You will be the death of me!" screamed the lobster as well hemight, with the heavy foot of the horse of power pressing his tailinto the sand. "Let me live, and I will do whatever you ask of me.""Very well," says the horse of power. "we will let you live," and heslowly lifted his foot. "But this is what you shall do for us. In themiddle of the blue sea lies a great stone, and under that stone ishidden the wedding dress of the Princess Vasilissa. Bring it here."The lobster groaned with the pain in his tail. Then he cried out in avoice that could be heard all over the deep blue sea. And the sea wasdisturbed, and from all sides lobsters in thousands made their waytowards the bank. And the huge lobster that was the oldest of them alland the Tzar of all the lobsters that live between the rising and thesetting of the sun, gave them the order and sent them back into thesea. And the young archer sat on the horse of power and waited.After a little time the sea was disturbed again, and the lobsters intheir thousands came to the shore, and with them they brought a goldencasket in which was the wedding dress of the Princess Vasilissa. Theyhad taken it from under the great stone that lay in the middle of thesea.The Tzar of all the lobsters raised himself painfully on his bruisedtail and gave the casket into the hands of the young archer, andinstantly the horse of power turned himself about and galloped back tothe palace of the Tzar, far, far away, at the other side of the greenforests and beyond the treeless plains.The young archer went into the palace and gave the casket into thehands of the Princess, and looked at her with sadness in his eyes, andshe looked at him with love. Then she went away into an inner chamber,and came back in her wedding dress, fairer than the spring itself.Great was the joy of the Tzar. The wedding feast was made ready, andthe bells rang, and flags waved above the palace.The Tzar held out his hand to the Princess, and looked at her with hisold eyes. But she would not take his hand."No," says she. "I will marry nobody until the man who brought me herehas done penance in boiling water."Instantly the Tzar turned to his servants and ordered them to make agreat fire, and to fill a great cauldron with water and set it on thefire, and, when the water should be at its hottest, to take the youngarcher and throw him into it, to do penance for having taken thePrincess Vasilissa away from the land of Never.There was no gratitude in the mind of that Tzar.Swiftly the servants brought wood and made a mighty fire, and on itthey laid a huge cauldron of water, and built the fire round the wallsof the cauldron. The fire burned hot and the water steamed. The fireburned hotter, and the water bubbled and seethed. They made ready totake the young archer, to throw him into the cauldron."Oh, misery!" thought the young archer. "Why did I ever take thegolden feather that had fallen from the fire bird's burning breast?Why did I not listen to the wise words of the horse of power?" And heremembered the horse of power, and he begged the Tzar, "O lord Tzar, I do not complain. I shall presently die in the heat ofthe water on the fire. Suffer me, before I die, once more to see myhorse.""Let him see his horse," says the Princess."Very well," says the Tzar. "Say good bye to your horse, for you willnot ride him again. But let your farewells be short, for we arewaiting."The young archer crossed the courtyard and came to the horse of power,who was scraping the ground with his iron hoofs."Farewell, my horse of power," says the young archer. "I should havelistened to your words of wisdom, for now the end is come, and weshall never more see the green trees pass above us and the grounddisappear beneath us, as we race the wind between the earth and thesky.""Why so?" says the horse of power."The Tzar has ordered that I am to be boiled to death thrown intothat cauldron that is seething on the great fire.""Fear not," says the horse of power, "for the Princess Vasilissa hasmade him do this, and the end of these things is better than Ithought. Go back, and when they are ready to throw you in thecauldron, do you run boldly and leap yourself into the boiling water."The young archer went back across the courtyard, and the servants madeready to throw him into the cauldron."Are you sure that the water is boiling?" says the Princess Vasilissa."It bubbles and seethes," said the servants."Let me see for myself," says the Princess, and she went to the fireand waved her hand above the cauldron. And some say there wassomething in her hand, and some say there was not."It is boiling," says she, and the servants laid hands on the youngarcher. but he threw them from him, and ran and leapt boldly beforethem all into the very middle of the cauldron.Twice he sank below the surface, borne round with the bubbles and foamof the boiling water. Then he leapt from the cauldron and stood beforethe Tzar and the Princess. He had become so beautiful a youth that allwho saw cried aloud in wonder."This is a miracle," says the Tzar. And the Tzar looked at thebeautiful young archer, and thought of himself of his age, of hisbent back, and his gray beard, and his toothless gums. "I too willbecome beautiful," thinks he, and he rose from his throne andclambered into the cauldron, and was boiled to death in a moment.And the end of the story? They buried the Tzar, and made the youngarcher Tzar in his place. He married the Princess Vasilissa, and livedmany years with her in love and good fellowship. And he built a goldenstable for the horse of power, and never forgot what he owed to him.