Once upon a time there was a little boy who had taken cold. He hadgone out and got his feet wet. though nobody could imagine how it hadhappened, for it was quite dry weather. So his mother undressed him, puthim to bed, and had the tea pot brought in, to make him a good cup ofElderflower tea. Just at that moment the merry old man came in wholived up a top of the house all alone. for he had neither wife norchildren but he liked children very much, and knew so many fairy tales,that it was quite delightful."Now drink your tea," said the boy's mother. "then, perhaps, you mayhear a fairy tale.""If I had but something new to tell," said the old man. "But how did thechild get his feet wet?""That is the very thing that nobody can make out," said his mother."Am I to hear a fairy tale?" asked the little boy."Yes, if you can tell me exactly for I must know that first how deepthe gutter is in the little street opposite, that you pass through ingoing to school.""Just up to the middle of my boot," said the child. "but then I must gointo the deep hole.""Ah, ah! That's where the wet feet came from," said the old man. "Iought now to tell you a story. but I don't know any more.""You can make one in a moment," said the little boy. "My mother saysthat all you look at can be turned into a fairy tale: and that you canfind a story in everything.""Yes, but such tales and stories are good for nothing. The right sortcome of themselves. they tap at my forehead and say, 'Here we are.'""Won't there be a tap soon?" asked the little boy. And his motherlaughed, put some Elder flowers in the tea pot, and poured boiling waterupon them."Do tell me something! Pray do!""Yes, if a fairy tale would come of its own accord. but they are proudand haughty, and come only when they choose. Stop!" said he, all on asudden. "I have it! Pay attention! There is one in the tea pot!"And the little boy looked at the tea pot. The cover rose more and more.and the Elder flowers came forth so fresh and white, and shot up longbranches. Out of the spout even did they spread themselves on all sides,and grew larger and larger. it was a splendid Elderbush, a whole tree.and it reached into the very bed, and pushed the curtains aside. Howit bloomed! And what an odour! In the middle of the bush sat afriendly looking old woman in a most strange dress. It was quitegreen, like the leaves of the elder, and was trimmed with large whiteElder flowers. so that at first one could not tell whether it was astuff, or a natural green and real flowers."What's that woman's name?" asked the little boy."The Greeks and Romans," said the old man, "called her a Dryad. but thatwe do not understand. The people who live in the New Booths have a muchbetter name for her. they call her 'old Granny' and she it is towhom you are to pay attention. Now listen, and look at the beautifulElderbush.A row of buildings for seamen in Copenhagen."Just such another large blooming Elder Tree stands near the New Booths.It grew there in the corner of a little miserable court yard. and underit sat, of an afternoon, in the most splendid sunshine, two oldpeople. an old, old seaman, and his old, old wife. They hadgreat grand children, and were soon to celebrate the fiftiethanniversary of their marriage. but they could not exactly recollect thedate: and old Granny sat in the tree, and looked as pleased as now. 'Iknow the date,' said she. but those below did not hear her, for theywere talking about old times."'Yes, can't you remember when we were very little,' said the oldseaman, 'and ran and played about? It was the very same court yard wherewe now are, and we stuck slips in the ground, and made a garden.'"'I remember it well,' said the old woman. 'I remember it quite well. Wewatered the slips, and one of them was an Elderbush. It took root, putforth green shoots, and grew up to be the large tree under which we oldfolks are now sitting.'"'To be sure,' said he. 'And there in the corner stood a waterpail,where I used to swim my boats.'"'True. but first we went to school to learn somewhat,' said she. 'andthen we were confirmed. We both cried. but in the afternoon we went upthe Round Tower, and looked down on Copenhagen, and far, far away overthe water. then we went to Friedericksberg, where the King and the Queenwere sailing about in their splendid barges.'"'But I had a different sort of sailing to that, later. and that, too,for many a year. a long way off, on great voyages.'"'Yes, many a time have I wept for your sake,' said she. 'I thought youwere dead and gone, and lying down in the deep waters. Many a night haveI got up to see if the wind had not changed: and changed it had, sureenough. but you never came. I remember so well one day, when the rainwas pouring down in torrents, the scavengers were before the house whereI was in service, and I had come up with the dust, and remained standingat the door it was dreadful weather when just as I was there, thepostman came and gave me a letter. It was from you! What a tour thatletter had made! I opened it instantly and read: I laughed and wept.I was so happy. In it I read that you were in warm lands where thecoffee tree grows. What a blessed land that must be! You related somuch, and I saw it all the while the rain was pouring down, and Istanding there with the dust box. At the same moment came someone whoembraced me.'"'Yes. but you gave him a good box on his ear that made it tingle!'"'But I did not know it was you. You arrived as soon as your letter,and you were so handsome that you still are and had a long yellow silkhandkerchief round your neck, and a bran new hat on. oh, you were sodashing! Good heavens! What weather it was, and what a state the streetwas in!'"'And then we married,' said he. 'Don't you remember? And then wehad our first little boy, and then Mary, and Nicholas, and Peter, andChristian.'"'Yes, and how they all grew up to be honest people, and were beloved byeverybody.'"'And their children also have children,' said the old sailor. 'yes,those are our grand children, full of strength and vigor. It was,methinks about this season that we had our wedding.'"'Yes, this very day is the fiftieth anniversary of the marriage,' saidold Granny, sticking her head between the two old people. who thoughtit was their neighbor who nodded to them. They looked at each other andheld one another by the hand. Soon after came their children, and theirgrand children. for they knew well enough that it was the day of thefiftieth anniversary, and had come with their gratulations that verymorning. but the old people had forgotten it, although they were ableto remember all that had happened many years ago. And the Elderbush sentforth a strong odour in the sun, that was just about to set, and shoneright in the old people's faces. They both looked so rosy cheeked. andthe youngest of the grandchildren danced around them, and called outquite delighted, that there was to be something very splendid thatevening they were all to have hot potatoes. And old Nanny nodded in thebush, and shouted 'hurrah!' with the rest.""But that is no fairy tale," said the little boy, who was listening tothe story."The thing is, you must understand it," said the narrator. "let us askold Nanny.""That was no fairy tale, 'tis true," said old Nanny. "but now it'scoming. The most wonderful fairy tales grow out of that which isreality. were that not the case, you know, my magnificent Elderbushcould not have grown out of the tea pot." And then she took the littleboy out of bed, laid him on her bosom, and the branches of the ElderTree, full of flowers, closed around her. They sat in an aerialdwelling, and it flew with them through the air. Oh, it was wondrousbeautiful! Old Nanny had grown all of a sudden a young and prettymaiden. but her robe was still the same green stuff with white flowers,which she had worn before. On her bosom she had a real Elderflower,and in her yellow waving hair a wreath of the flowers. her eyes were solarge and blue that it was a pleasure to look at them. she kissed theboy, and now they were of the same age and felt alike.Hand in hand they went out of the bower, and they were standing in thebeautiful garden of their home. Near the green lawn papa's walking stickwas tied, and for the little ones it seemed to be endowed with life. foras soon as they got astride it, the round polished knob was turned intoa magnificent neighing head, a long black mane fluttered in the breeze,and four slender yet strong legs shot out. The animal was strong andhandsome, and away they went at full gallop round the lawn."Huzza! Now we are riding miles off," said the boy. "We are riding awayto the castle where we were last year!"And on they rode round the grass plot. and the little maiden, who, weknow, was no one else but old Nanny, kept on crying out, "Now we are inthe country! Don't you see the farm house yonder? And there is an ElderTree standing beside it. and the cock is scraping away the earth for thehens, look, how he struts! And now we are close to the church. It lieshigh upon the hill, between the large oak trees, one of which is halfdecayed. And now we are by the smithy, where the fire is blazing, andwhere the half naked men are banging with their hammers till the sparksfly about. Away! away! To the beautiful country seat!"And all that the little maiden, who sat behind on the stick, spoke of,flew by in reality. The boy saw it all, and yet they were only goinground the grass plot. Then they played in a side avenue, and marked outa little garden on the earth. and they took Elder blossoms from theirhair, planted them, and they grew just like those the old people plantedwhen they were children, as related before. They went hand in hand, asthe old people had done when they were children. but not to the RoundTower, or to Friedericksberg. no, the little damsel wound her arms roundthe boy, and then they flew far away through all Denmark. And springcame, and summer. and then it was autumn, and then winter. and athousand pictures were reflected in the eye and in the heart of the boy.and the little girl always sang to him, "This you will never forget."And during their whole flight the Elder Tree smelt so sweet and odorous.he remarked the roses and the fresh beeches, but the Elder Tree hada more wondrous fragrance, for its flowers hung on the breast of thelittle maiden. and there, too, did he often lay his head during theflight."It is lovely here in spring!" said the young maiden. And they stood ina beech wood that had just put on its first green, where the woodroofat their feet sent forth its fragrance, and the pale red anemony lookedso pretty among the verdure. "Oh, would it were always spring in thesweetly smelling Danish beech forests!"Asperula odorata."It is lovely here in summer!" said she. And she flew past old castlesof by gone days of chivalry, where the red walls and the embattledgables were mirrored in the canal, where the swans were swimming, andpeered up into the old cool avenues. In the fields the corn was wavinglike the sea. in the ditches red and yellow flowers were growing. whilewild drone flowers, and blooming convolvuluses were creeping in thehedges. and towards evening the moon rose round and large, and thehaycocks in the meadows smelt so sweetly. "This one never forgets!""It is lovely here in autumn!" said the little maiden. And suddenly theatmosphere grew as blue again as before. the forest grew red, and green,and yellow colored. The dogs came leaping along, and whole flocks ofwild fowl flew over the cairn, where blackberry bushes were hanginground the old stones. The sea was dark blue, covered with ships fullof white sails. and in the barn old women, maidens, and children weresitting picking hops into a large cask. the young sang songs, but theold told fairy tales of mountain sprites and soothsayers. Nothing couldbe more charming."It is delightful here in winter!" said the little maiden. And all thetrees were covered with hoar frost. they looked like white corals. thesnow crackled under foot, as if one had new boots on. and one fallingstar after the other was seen in the sky. The Christmas tree was lightedin the room. presents were there, and good humor reigned. In the countrythe violin sounded in the room of the peasant. the newly baked cakeswere attacked. even the poorest child said, "It is really delightfulhere in winter!"Yes, it was delightful. and the little maiden showed the boy everything.and the Elder Tree still was fragrant, and the red flag, with the whitecross, was still waving: the flag under which the old seaman in the NewBooths had sailed. And the boy grew up to be a lad, and was to go forthin the wide world far, far away to warm lands, where the coffee treegrows. but at his departure the little maiden took an Elder blossom fromher bosom, and gave it him to keep. and it was placed between the leavesof his Prayer Book. and when in foreign lands he opened the book, itwas always at the place where the keepsake flower lay. and the more helooked at it, the fresher it became. he felt as it were, the fragranceof the Danish groves. and from among the leaves of the flowers he coulddistinctly see the little maiden, peeping forth with her bright blueeyes and then she whispered, "It is delightful here in Spring, Summer,Autumn, and Winter". and a hundred visions glided before his mind.Thus passed many years, and he was now an old man, and sat with his oldwife under the blooming tree. They held each other by the hand, as theold grand father and grand mother yonder in the New Booths did, and theytalked exactly like them of old times, and of the fiftieth anniversaryof their wedding. The little maiden, with the blue eyes, and withElder blossoms in her hair, sat in the tree, nodded to both of them,and said, "To day is the fiftieth anniversary!" And then she took twoflowers out of her hair, and kissed them. First, they shone like silver,then like gold. and when they laid them on the heads of the old people,each flower became a golden crown. So there they both sat, like a kingand a queen, under the fragrant tree, that looked exactly like an elder:the old man told his wife the story of "Old Nanny," as it had been toldhim when a boy. And it seemed to both of them it contained much thatresembled their own history. and those parts that were like it pleasedthem best."Thus it is," said the little maiden in the tree, "some call me 'OldNanny,' others a 'Dryad,' but, in reality, my name is 'Remembrance'.'tis I who sit in the tree that grows and grows! I can remember. I cantell things! Let me see if you have my flower still?"And the old man opened his Prayer Book. There lay the Elder blossom,as fresh as if it had been placed there but a short time before. andRemembrance nodded, and the old people, decked with crowns of gold, satin the flush of the evening sun. They closed their eyes, and and !Yes, that's the end of the story!The little boy lay in his bed. he did not know if he had dreamed ornot, or if he had been listening while someone told him the story. Thetea pot was standing on the table, but no Elder Tree was growing outof it! And the old man, who had been talking, was just on the point ofgoing out at the door, and he did go."How splendid that was!" said the little boy. "Mother, I have been towarm countries.""So I should think," said his mother. "When one has drunk two goodcupfuls of Elder flower tea, 'tis likely enough one goes into warmclimates". and she tucked him up nicely, least he should take cold. "Youhave had a good sleep while I have been sitting here, and arguing withhim whether it was a story or a fairy tale.""And where is old Nanny?" asked the little boy."In the tea pot," said his mother. "and there she may remain."