There was once a great war, and the King had a great many soldiers, buthe gave them so little pay that they could not live upon it. Then threeof them took counsel together and determined to desert.One of them said to the others, 'If we are caught, we shall be hangedon the gallows. how shall we set about it?' The other said, 'Do you seethat large cornfield there? If we were to hide ourselves in that, noone could find us. The army cannot come into it, and to morrow it is tomarch on.'They crept into the corn, but the army did not march on, but remainedencamped close around them. They sat for two days and two nights inthe corn, and grew so hungry that they nearly died. but if they were toventure out, it was certain death.They said at last, 'What use was it our deserting? We must perish heremiserably.'Whilst they were speaking a fiery dragon came flying through the air. Ithovered near them, and asked why they were hidden there.They answered, 'We are three soldiers, and have deserted because our paywas so small. Now if we remain here we shall die of hunger, and if wemove out we shall be strung up on the gallows.''If you will serve me for seven years,' said the dragon, I will lead youthrough the midst of the army so that no one shall catch you.' 'We haveno choice, and must take your offer,' said they. Then the dragon seizedthem in his claws, took them through the air over the army, and set themdown on the earth a long way from it.He gave them a little whip, saying, 'Whip and slash with this, and asmuch money as you want will jump up before you. You can then live asgreat lords, keep horses, and drive about in carriages. But after sevenyears you are mine.' Then he put a book before them, which he made allthree of them sign. 'I will then give you a riddle,' he said. 'if youguess it, you shall be free and out of my power.' The dragon then flewaway, and they journeyed on with their little whip. They had as muchmoney as they wanted, wore grand clothes, and made their way into theworld. Wherever they went they lived in merrymaking and splendour, droveabout with horses and carriages, ate and drank, but did nothing wrong.The time passed quickly away, and when the seven years were nearly endedtwo of them grew terribly anxious and frightened, but the thirdmade light of it, saying, 'Don't be afraid, brothers, I wasn't bornyesterday. I will guess the riddle.'They went into a field, sat down, and the two pulled long faces. An oldwoman passed by, and asked them why they were so sad. 'Alas! what haveyou to do with it? You cannot help us.' 'Who knows?' she answered. 'Onlyconfide your trouble in me.'Then they told her that they had become the servants of the Dragon forseven long years, and how he had given them money as plentifully asblackberries. but as they had signed their names they were his, unlesswhen the seven years had passed they could guess a riddle. The old womansaid, 'If you would help yourselves, one of you must go into the wood,and there he will come upon a tumble down building of rocks which lookslike a little house. He must go in, and there he will find help.'The two melancholy ones thought, 'That won't save us!' and they remainedwhere they were. But the third and merry one jumped up and went into thewood till he found the rock hut. In the hut sat a very old woman, whowas the Dragon's grandmother. She asked him how he came, and what washis business there. He told her all that happened, and because she waspleased with him she took compassion on him, and said she would helphim.She lifted up a large stone which lay over the cellar, saying, 'Hideyourself there. you can hear all that is spoken in this room. Only sitstill and don't stir. When the Dragon comes, I will ask him what theriddle is, for he tells me everything. then listen carefully what heanswers.'At midnight the Dragon flew in, and asked for his supper. Hisgrandmother laid the table, and brought out food and drink till he wassatisfied, and they ate and drank together. Then in the course of theconversation she asked him what he had done in the day, and how manysouls he had conquered.'I haven't had much luck to day,' he said, 'but I have a tight hold onthree soldiers.''Indeed! three soldiers!' said she. 'Who cannot escape you?''They are mine,' answered the Dragon scornfully, 'for I shall only givethem one riddle which they will never be able to guess.''What sort of a riddle is it?' she asked.'I will tell you this. In the North Sea lies a dead sea cat that shallbe their roast meat. and the rib of a whale that shall be theirsilver spoon. and the hollow foot of a dead horse that shall be theirwineglass.'When the Dragon had gone to bed, his old grandmother pulled up the stoneand let out the soldier.'Did you pay attention to everything?''Yes,' he replied, 'I know enough, and can help myself splendidly.'Then he went by another way through the window secretly, and in allhaste back to his comrades. He told them how the Dragon had beenoutwitted by his grandmother, and how he had heard from his own lips theanswer to the riddle.Then they were all delighted and in high spirits, took out their whip,and cracked so much money that it came jumping up from the ground.When the seven years had quite gone, the Fiend came with his book, and,pointing at the signatures, said, 'I will take you underground with me.you shall have a meal there. If you can tell me what you will get foryour roast meat, you shall be free, and shall also keep the whip.'Then said the first soldier, 'In the North Sea lies a dead sea cat. thatshall be the roast meat.'The Dragon was much annoyed, and hummed and hawed a good deal, and askedthe second, 'But what shall be your spoon?''The rib of a whale shall be our silver spoon.'The Dragon made a face, and growled again three times, 'Hum, hum, hum,'and said to the third, 'Do you know what your wineglass shall be?''An old horse's hoof shall be our wineglass.'Then the Dragon flew away with a loud shriek, and had no more power overthem. But the three soldiers took the little whip, whipped as much moneyas they wanted, and lived happily to their lives end.THE DONKEY CABBAGEThere was once a young Hunter who went boldly into the forest. He had amerry and light heart, and as he went whistling along there came an uglyold woman, who said to him, 'Good day, dear hunter! You are very merryand contented, but I suffer hunger and thirst, so give me a trifle.' TheHunter was sorry for the poor old woman, and he felt in his pocket andgave her all he could spare. He was going on then, but the old womanstopped him and said, 'Listen, dear hunter, to what I say. Because ofyour kind heart I will make you a present. Go on your way, and in ashort time you will come to a tree on which sit nine birds who have acloak in their claws and are quarrelling over it. Then take aim withyour gun and shoot in the middle of them. they will let the cloak fall,but one of the birds will be hit and will drop down dead. Take the cloakwith you. it is a wishing cloak, and when you throw it on your shouldersyou have only to wish yourself at a certain place, and in the twinklingof an eye you are there. Take the heart out of the dead bird and swallowit whole, and early every morning when you get up you will find a goldpiece under your pillow.'The Hunter thanked the wise woman, and thought to himself 'These aresplendid things she has promised me, if only they come to pass!' Sohe walked on about a hundred yards, and then he heard above him in thebranches such a screaming and chirping that he looked up, and therehe saw a heap of birds tearing a cloth with their beaks and feet,shrieking, tugging, and fighting, as if each wanted it for himself.'Well,' said the Hunter, 'this is wonderful! It is just as the old womansaid'. and he took his gun on his shoulder, pulled the trigger, andshot into the midst of them, so that their feathers flew about. Then theflock took flight with much screaming, but one fell dead, and the cloakfluttered down. Then the Hunter did as the old woman had told him: hecut open the bird, found its heart, swallowed it, and took the cloakhome with him. The next morning when he awoke he remembered the promise,and wanted to see if it had come true. But when he lifted up his pillow,there sparkled the gold piece, and the next morning he found another,and so on every time he got up. He collected a heap of gold, but atlast he thought to himself, 'What good is all my gold to me if I stayat home? I will travel and look a bit about me in the world.' So he tookleave of his parents, slung his hunting knapsack and his gun round him,and journeyed into the world.It happened that one day he went through a thick wood, and when he cameto the end of it there lay in the plain before him a large castle. Atone of the windows in it stood an old woman with a most beautiful maidenby her side, looking out. But the old woman was a witch, and she said tothe girl, 'There comes one out of the wood who has a wonderful treasurein his body which we must manage to possess ourselves of, darlingdaughter. we have more right to it than he. He has a bird's heart inhim, and so every morning there lies a gold piece under his pillow.'She told her how they could get hold of it, and how she was to coax itfrom him, and at last threatened her angrily, saying, 'And if you do notobey me, you shall repent it!'When the Hunter came nearer he saw the maiden, and said to himself, 'Ihave travelled so far now that I will rest, and turn into this beautifulcastle. money I have in plenty.' But the real reason was that he hadcaught sight of the lovely face.He went into the house, and was kindly received and hospitablyentertained. It was not long before he was so much in love with thewitch maiden that he thought of nothing else, and only looked in hereyes, and whatever she wanted, that he gladly did. Then the old witchsaid, 'Now we must have the bird heart. he will not feel when it isgone.' She prepared a drink, and when it was ready she poured it in agoblet and gave it to the maiden, who had to hand it to the hunter.'Drink to me now, my dearest,' she said. Then he took the goblet, andwhen he had swallowed the drink the bird heart came out of his mouth.The maiden had to get hold of it secretly and then swallow it herself,for the old witch wanted to have it. Thenceforward he found no more goldunder his pillow, and it lay under the maiden's. but he was so much inlove and so much bewitched that he thought of nothing except spendingall his time with the maiden.Then the old witch said, 'We have the bird heart, but we must also getthe wishing cloak from him.'The maiden answered, 'We will leave him that. he has already lost hiswealth!'The old witch grew angry, and said, 'Such a cloak is a wonderful thing,it is seldom to be had in the world, and have it I must and will.' Shebeat the maiden, and said that if she did not obey it would go ill withher.So she did her mother's bidding, and, standing one day by the window,she looked away into the far distance as if she were very sad.'Why are you standing there looking so sad?' asked the Hunter.'Alas, my love,' she replied, 'over there lies the granite mountainwhere the costly precious stones grow. I have a great longing to gothere, so that when I think of it I am very sad. For who can fetch them?Only the birds who fly. a man, never.''If you have no other trouble,' said the Hunter, 'that one I can easilyremove from your heart.'So he wrapped her round in his cloak and wished themselves to thegranite mountain, and in an instant there they were, sitting on it! Theprecious stones sparkled so brightly on all sides that it was a pleasureto see them, and they collected the most beautiful and costly together.But now the old witch had through her caused the Hunter's eyes to becomeheavy.He said to the maiden, 'We will sit down for a little while and rest. Iam so tired that I can hardly stand on my feet.'So they sat down, and he laid his head on her lap and fell asleep. Assoon as he was sound asleep she unfastened the cloak from his shoulders,threw it on her own, left the granite and stones, and wished herselfhome again.But when the Hunter had finished his sleep and awoke, he found that hislove had betrayed him and left him alone on the wild mountain. 'Oh,'said he, 'why is faithlessness so great in the world?' and he sat downin sorrow and trouble, not knowing what to do.But the mountain belonged to fierce and huge giants, who lived on itand traded there, and he had not sat long before he saw three of themstriding towards him. So he lay down as if he had fallen into a deepsleep.The giants came up, and the first pushed him with his foot, and said,'What sort of an earthworm is that?'The second said, 'Crush him dead.'But the third said contemptuously, 'It is not worth the trouble! Let himlive. he cannot remain here, and if he goes higher up the mountain theclouds will take him and carry him off.'Talking thus they went away. But the Hunter had listened to their talk,and as soon as they had gone he rose and climbed to the summit. When hehad sat there a little while a cloud swept by, and, seizing him, carriedhim away. It travelled for a time in the sky, and then it sank down andhovered over a large vegetable garden surrounded by walls, so that hecame safely to the ground amidst cabbages and vegetables. The Hunterthen looked about him, saying, 'If only I had something to eat! I am sohungry, and it will go badly with me in the future, for I see herenot an apple or pear or fruit of any kind nothing but vegetableseverywhere.' At last he thought, 'At a pinch I can eat a salad. it doesnot taste particularly nice, but it will refresh me.' So he looked aboutfor a good head and ate it, but no sooner had he swallowed a coupleof mouthfuls than he felt very strange, and found himself wonderfullychanged. Four legs began to grow on him, a thick head, and two longears, and he saw with horror that he had changed into a donkey. But ashe was still very hungry and this juicy salad tasted very good to hispresent nature, he went on eating with a still greater appetite. At lasthe got hold of another kind of cabbage, but scarcely had swallowed itwhen he felt another change, and he once more regained his human form.The Hunter now lay down and slept off his weariness. When he awokethe next morning he broke off a head of the bad and a head of the goodcabbage, thinking, 'This will help me to regain my own, and to punishfaithlessness.' Then he put the heads in his pockets, climbed the wall,and started off to seek the castle of his love. When he had wanderedabout for a couple of days he found it quite easily. He then browned hisface quickly, so that his own mother would not have known him, and wentinto the castle, where he begged for a lodging.'I am so tired,' he said, 'I can go no farther.'The witch asked, 'Countryman, who are you, and what is your business?'He answered, 'I am a messenger of the King, and have been sent to seekthe finest salad that grows under the sun. I have been so lucky as tofind it, and am bringing it with me. but the heat of the sun is so greatthat the tender cabbage threatens to grow soft, and I do not know if Ishall be able to bring it any farther.'When the old witch heard of the fine salad she wanted to eat it, andsaid, 'Dear countryman, just let me taste the wonderful salad.''Why not?' he answered. 'I have brought two heads with me, and will giveyou one.'So saying, he opened his sack and gave her the bad one. The witchsuspected no evil, and her mouth watered to taste the new dish, so thatshe went into the kitchen to prepare it herself. When it was ready shecould not wait till it was served at the table, but she immediately tooka couple of leaves and put them in her mouth. No sooner, however, hadshe swallowed them than she lost human form, and ran into the courtyardin the shape of a donkey.Now the servant came into the kitchen, and when she saw the saladstanding there ready cooked she was about to carry it up, but on theway, according to her old habit, she tasted it and ate a couple ofleaves. Immediately the charm worked, and she became a donkey, and ranout to join the old witch, and the dish with the salad in it fell tothe ground. In the meantime, the messenger was sitting with the lovelymaiden, and as no one came with the salad, and she wanted very much totaste it, she said, 'I don't know where the salad is.'Then thought the Hunter, 'The cabbage must have already begun to work.'And he said, 'I will go to the kitchen and fetch it myself.'When he came there he saw the two donkeys running about in thecourtyard, but the salad was lying on the ground.'That's all right,' said he. 'two have had their share!' And lifting theremaining leaves up, he laid them on the dish and brought them to themaiden.'I am bringing you the delicious food my own self,' he said, 'so thatyou need not wait any longer.'Then she ate, and, as the others had done, she at once lost her humanform, and ran as a donkey into the yard.When the Hunter had washed his face, so that the changed ones might knowhim, he went into the yard, saying, 'Now you shall receive a reward foryour faithlessness.'He tied them all three with a rope, and drove them away till he came toa mill. He knocked at the window, and the miller put his head out andasked what he wanted.'I have three tiresome animals,' he answered, 'which I don't want tokeep any longer. If you will take them, give them food and stabling, anddo as I tell you with them, I will pay you as much as you want.'The miller replied, 'Why not? What shall I do with them?'Then the Hunter said that to the old donkey, which was the witch, threebeatings and one meal. to the younger one, which was the servant, onebeating and three meals. and to the youngest one, which was the maiden,no beating and three meals. for he could not find it in his heart to letthe maiden be beaten.Then he went back into the castle, and he found there all that hewanted. After a couple of days the miller came and said that he musttell him that the old donkey which was to have three beatings and onlyone meal had died. 'The two others,' he added, 'are certainly not dead,and get their three meals every day, but they are so sad that theycannot last much longer.'Then the Hunter took pity on them, laid aside his anger, and told themiller to drive them back again. And when they came he gave them someof the good cabbage to eat, so that they became human again. Then thebeautiful maiden fell on her knees before him, saying, 'Oh, my dearest,forgive me the ill I have done you! My mother compelled me to do it.it was against my will, for I love you dearly. Your wishing cloak ishanging in a cupboard, and as for the bird heart I will make a drink andgive it back to you.'But he changed his mind, and said, 'Keep it. it makes no difference, forI will take you to be my own dear true wife.'And the wedding was celebrated, and they lived happy together tilldeath.