In a tiny cottage near the king's palace there once lived an old man,his wife, and his son, a very lazy fellow, who would never do a strokeof work. He could not be got even to look after their one cow, but lefther to look after herself, while he lay on a bank and went to sleep inthe sun. For a long time his father bore with him, hoping that as hegrew older he might gain more sense. but at last the old man's patiencewas worn out, and he told his son that he should not stay at house inidleness, and must go out into the world to seek his fortune.The young man saw that there was no help for it, and he set out witha wallet full of food over his shoulder. At length he came to a largehouse, at the door of which he knocked.'What do you want?' asked the old man who opened it. And the youth toldhim how his father had turned him out of his house because he was solazy and stupid, and he needed shelter for the night.'That you shall have,' replied the man. 'but to morrow I shall give yousome work to do, for you must know that I am the chief herdsman of theking.'The youth made no answer to this. He felt, if he was to be made to workafter all, that he might as well have stayed where he was. But as he didnot see any other way of getting a bed, he went slowly in.The herdsman's two daughters and their mother were sitting at supper,and invited him to join them. Nothing more was said about work, and whenthe meal was over they all went to bed.In the morning, when the young man was dressed, the herdsman called tohim and said:'Now listen, and I will tell you what you have to do.''What is it?' asked the youth, sulkily.'Nothing less than to look after two hundred pigs,' was the reply.'Oh, I am used to that,' answered the youth.'Yes. but this time you will have to do it properly,' said the herdsman.and he took the youth to the place where the pigs were feeding, and toldhim to drive them to the woods on the side of the mountain. This theyoung man did, but as soon as they reached the outskirts of the mountainthey grew quite wild, and would have run away altogether, had they notluckily gone towards a narrow ravine, from which the youth easily drovethem home to his father's cottage.'Where do all these pigs come from, and how did you get them?' asked theold man in surprise, when his son knocked at the door of the hut he hadleft only the day before.'They belong to the king's chief herdsman,' answered his son. 'He gavethem to me to look after, but I knew I could not do it, so I drove themstraight to you. Now make the best of your good fortune, and kill themand hang them up at once.''What are you talking about?' cried the father, pale with horror. 'Weshould certainly both be put to death if I did any such thing.''No, no. do as I tell you, and I will get out of it somehow,' repliedthe young man. And in the end he had his way. The pigs were killed,and laid side by side in a row. Then he cut off the tails and tied themtogether with a piece of cord, and swinging the bundle over his back,he returned to the place where they should have been feeding. Here therewas a small swamp, which was just what he wanted, and finding a largestone, he fastened the rope to it, and sank it in the swamp, after whichhe arranged the tails carefully one by one, so that only their pointswere seen sticking out of the water. When everything was in order, hehastened home to his master with such a sorrowful face that the herdsmansaw at once that something dreadful had happened.'Where are the pigs?' asked he.'Oh, don't speak of them!' answered the young man. 'I really can hardlytell you. The moment they got into the field they became quite mad, andeach ran in a different direction. I ran too, hither and thither, but asfast as I caught one, another was off, till I was in despair. At last,however, I collected them all and was about to drive them back, whensuddenly they rushed down the hill into the swamp, where they vanishedcompletely, leaving only the points of their tails, which you can seefor yourself.''You have made up that story very well,' replied the herdsman.'No, it is the real truth. come with me and I'll prove it.' And theywent together to the spot, and there sure enough were the points ofthe tails sticking up out of the water. The herdsman laid hold of thenearest, and pulled at it with all his might, but it was no use, forthe stone and the rope held them all fast. He called to the young man tohelp him, but the two did not succeed any better than the one had done.'Yes, your story was true after all. it is a wonderful thing,' said theherdsman. 'But I see it is no fault of yours, and I must put up withmy loss as well as I can. Now let us return home, for it is time forsupper.Next morning the herdsman said to the young man: 'I have got some otherwork for you to do. To day you must take a hundred sheep to graze. butbe careful that no harm befalls them.''I will do my best,' replied the youth. And he opened the gate of thefold, where the sheep had been all night, and drove them out into themeadow. But in a short time they grew as wild as the pigs had done, andscattered in all directions. The young man could not collect them, tryas he would, and he thought to himself that this was the punishment forhis laziness in refusing to look after his father's one cow.At last, however, the sheep seemed tired of running about, and thenthe youth managed to gather them together, and drove them, as before,straight to his father's house.'Whose sheep are these, and what are they doing here?' asked the old manin wonder, and his son told him. But when the tale was ended the fathershook his head.'Give up these bad ways and take them back to your master,' said he.'No, no,' answered the youth. 'I am not so stupid as that! We will killthem and have them for dinner.''You will lose your life if you do,' replied the father.'Oh, I am not sure of that!' said the son, 'and, anyway, I will have mywill for once.' And he killed all the sheep and laid them on the grass.But he cut off the head of the ram which always led the flock and hadbells round its horns. This he took back to the place where they shouldhave been feeding, for here he had noticed a high rock, with a patch ofgreen grass in the middle and two or three thick bushes growing on theedge. Up this rock he climbed with great difficulty, and fastened theram's head to the bushes with a cord, leaving only the tips of the hornswith the bells visible. As there was a soft breeze blowing, the bushesto which the head was tied moved gently, and the bells rang. When allwas done to his liking he hastened quickly back to his master.'Where are the sheep?' asked the herdsman as the young man ran pantingup the steps.'Oh! don't speak of them,' answered he. 'It is only by a miracle that Iam here myself.''Tell me at once what has happened,' said the herdsman sternly.The youth began to sob, and stammered out: 'I I hardly know how to tellyou! They they they were so so troublesome that I could not managethem at all. They ran about in in all directions, and I I ran afterthem and nearly died of fatigue. Then I heard a a noise, which I Ithought was the wind. But but it was the sheep, which, be before myvery eyes, were carried straight up up into the air. I stood watchingthem as if I was turned to stone, but there kept ringing in my ears thesound of the bells on the ram which led them.''That is nothing but a lie from beginning to end,' said the herdsman.'No, it is as true as that there is a sun in heaven,' answered the youngman.'Then give me a proof of it,' cried his master.'Well, come with me,' said the youth. By this time it was evening andthe dusk was falling. The young man brought the herdsman to the foot ofthe great rock, but it was so dark you could hardly see. Still the soundof sheep bells rang softly from above, and the herdsman knew them to bethose he had hung on the horns of his ram.'Do you hear?' asked the youth.'Yes, I hear. you have spoken the truth, and I cannot blame you for whathas happened. I must bear the loss as best as I can.'He turned and went home, followed by the young man, who felt highlypleased with his own cleverness.'I should not be surprised if the tasks I set you were too difficult,and that you were tired of them,' said the herdsman next morning. 'butto day I have something quite easy for you to do. You must look afterforty oxen, and be sure you are very careful, for one of them hasgold tipped horns and hoofs, and the king reckons it among his greatesttreasures.'The young man drove out the oxen into the meadow, and no sooner had theygot there than, like the sheep and the pigs, they began to scamper inall directions, the precious bull being the wildest of all. As the youthstood watching them, not knowing what to do next, it came into his headthat his father's cow was put out to grass at no great distance. and heforthwith made such a noise that he quite frightened the oxen, who wereeasily persuaded to take the path he wished. When they heard the cowlowing they galloped all the faster, and soon they all arrived at hisfather's house.The old man was standing before the door of his hut when the great herdof animals dashed round a corner of the road, with his son and his owncow at their head.'Whose cattle are these, and why are they here?' he asked. and his sontold him the story.'Take them back to your master as soon as you can,' said the old man.but the son only laughed, and said:'No, no. they are a present to you! They will make you fat!'For a long while the old man refused to have anything to do with such awicked scheme. but his son talked him over in the end, and they killedthe oxen as they had killed the sheep and the pigs. Last of all theycame to the king's cherished ox.The son had a rope ready to cast round its horns, and throw it to theground, but the ox was stronger than the rope, and soon tore it inpieces. Then it dashed away to the wood, the youth following. overhedges and ditches they both went, till they reached the rocky passwhich bordered the herdsman's land. Here the ox, thinking itself safe,stopped to rest, and thus gave the young man a chance to come up withit. Not knowing how to catch it, he collected all the wood he couldfind and made a circle of fire round the ox, who by this time had fallenasleep, and did not wake till the fire had caught its head, and it wastoo late for it to escape. Then the young man, who had been watching,ran home to his master.'You have been away a long while,' said the herdsman. 'Where are thecattle?'The young man gasped, and seemed as if he was unable to speak. At lasthe answered:'It is always the same story! The oxen are gone gone!''G g gone?' cried the herdsman. 'Scoundrel, you lie!''I am telling you the exact truth,' answered the young man. 'Directlywe came to the meadow they grew so wild that I could not keep themtogether. Then the big ox broke away, and the others followed till theyall disappeared down a deep hole into the earth. It seemed to me that Iheard sounds of bellowing, and I thought I recognised the voice of thegolden horned ox. but when I got to the place from which the sounds hadcome, I could neither see nor hear anything in the hole itself, thoughthere were traces of a fire all round it.''Wretch!' cried the herdsman, when he had heard this story, 'even if youdid not lie before, you are lying now.''No, master, I am speaking the truth. Come and see for yourself.''If I find you have deceived me, you are a dead man, said the herdsman.and they went out together.'What do you call that?' asked the youth. And the herdsman looked andsaw the traces of a fire, which seemed to have sprung up from under theearth.'Wonder upon wonder,' he exclaimed, 'so you really did speak the truthafter all! Well, I cannot reproach you, though I shall have to payheavily to my royal master for the value of that ox. But come, let usgo home! I will never set you to herd cattle again, henceforward I willgive you something easier to do.''I have thought of exactly the thing for you,' said the herdsman as theywalked along, 'and it is so simple that you cannot make a mistake. Justmake me ten scythes, one for every man, for I want the grass mown in oneof my meadows to morrow.'At these words the youth's heart sank, for he had never been trainedeither as a smith or a joiner. However, he dared not say no, but smiledand nodded.Slowly and sadly he went to bed, but he could not sleep, for wonderinghow the scythes were to be made. All the skill and cunning he had shownbefore was of no use to him now, and after thinking about the scythesfor many hours, there seemed only one way open to him. So, listeningto make sure that all was still, he stole away to his parents, and toldthem the whole story. When they had heard everything, they hid him whereno one could find him.Time passed away, and the young man stayed at home doing all his parentsbade him, and showing himself very different from what he had beenbefore he went out to see the world. but one day he said to his fatherthat he should like to marry, and have a house of his own.'When I served the king's chief herdsman,' added he, 'I saw hisdaughter, and I am resolved to try if I cannot win her for my wife.''It will cost you your life, if you do,' answered the father, shakinghis head.'Well, I will do my best,' replied his son. 'but first give me the swordwhich hangs over your bed!'The old man did not understand what good the sword would do, however hetook it down, and the young man went his way.Late in the evening he arrived at the house of the herdsman, and knockedat the door, which was opened by a little boy.'I want to speak to your master,' said he.'So it is you?' cried the herdsman, when he had received the message.'Well, you can sleep here to night if you wish.''I have come for something else besides a bed,' replied the young man,drawing his sword, 'and if you do not promise to give me your youngestdaughter as my wife I will stab you through the heart.'What could the poor man do but promise? And he fetched his youngestdaughter, who seemed quite pleased at the proposed match, and gave theyouth her hand.Then the young man went home to his parents, and bade them get readyto welcome his bride. And when the wedding was over he told hisfather in law, the herdsman, what he had done with the sheep, and pigs,and cattle. By and by the story came to the king's ears, and he thoughtthat a man who was so clever was just the man to govern the country. sohe made him his minister, and after the king himself there was no one sogreat as he.