When the Norsemen came, and their visits were frequent and numerous, tothis country and these islands, to lay claim to and take possession of theland, the fame they gathered for themselves through their indulgence inevery manner of cruel spoliation, and slaughter of the people whereverthey landed, was that they were a bold, courageous, hardy, rough ("TheNorsemen a rough band"), peremptory and unscrupulous race, and more thanthat, it was attributed to them that they practiced witchcraft, charms,and enchantments, and had much of other unhallowed learning among them.The Norse King's eldest daughter was particularly noted for herknowledge of the "Black Art." There was no accident or mischance thatbefell friends, or destruction that overtook enemies, or any luck or goodfortune that attended either friend or foe, but it was said that she wasthe cause of it, or had some hand in it. She was famed at home and abroad,far and wide, for her skill among cows and cattle, she was said to possessevery variety of dairy knowledge in her father's kingdom. There was nocharm or evil eye that fell on any living creature in the fold but shecould dispel and avert, nor hurt nor injury they got but she could heal,nor dizziness nor fits into which they fell, from which she could notrestore them, until it was said of her that the lowing of cattle, theincoherent cry of calves, and the rough cry of yearlings was to her thesweetest and most soothing music, and that she would answer the call ofcattle, though she might be lost in the midst of the northern woods, andthe cry from the nethermost part of the farthest off quarter of theuniverse. She knew the herb that had the property of taking its qualitiesfrom milk, as well as she was acquainted with the spells by which itsvirtues could be restored, and every charm and invocation that waspracticed or then esteemed. The flowers of the meadows and woods were asfamiliar to her as the ridges of corn or a grain on straw, and there wasnot a leaf on tree, bush, or shrub, with whose properties she was notacquainted. Her father's kingdom was clothed with pine wood, and was thenas now famous for the fine quality of the wood from which most of thewealth of the kingdom was obtained.One of those times when the Norsemen came to Scotland to takepossession of and sub divide the land thus taken, they observed that thepine wood of Lochaber was growing so fast, and extending so far, that intime it might supersede the Black Forests of Sweden. But on this occasionthe northern forces were driven back. On reaching home they reported thematter to the king, and their opinion, that the increase of the wood mustbe checked, otherwise his northern woods would be of little esteem.It occurred to the King to consult his daughter on the matter, sinceshe was learned, and to get knowledge from her of the best method ofthinning and destroying the Scottish wood. She gave him the desiredinformation, but said that she must be the bearer of the method and mustnecessarily go to Scotland herself. She obtained the King's permission andmade preparations for the journey.From the gifts she possessed, neither sea nor land, air nor earth couldhinder her progress until she accomplished her purpose. When she reachedLochaber the method she adopted was to kindle a fire in the selvage of herdress, and she then began to go through the woods, and as she could travelin the clouds as well as on the ground, when she ascended and whirled inthe air, the sparks of fire that flew from her dress were blown hither andthither by the wind and set the woods on fire, until the whole country wasalmost in a blaze, and so darkened by the smoke, that one could hardly seebefore them. and, from being blackened more than any tree in the forest,by the smoke and soot of the fiery furnace which surrounded her, she wasknown and spoken of by the name of "Dark, or Pitch Pine."The people gathered to watch her, but from the rapidity of her ascentand the swiftness with which she descended, they could not grasp her anymore than they could prevent her, and were at a loss what to do. At last,they sought instruction from a learned man in the place. He advised themto collect a herd of cattle in a fold, wherever she would stand still, andwhenever she heard the lowing of the cattle she would descend, and whenshe was within gun shot they were to fire at her with a silver bullet,when she would become a faggot of bones. They followed this advice andbegan to gather cattle and follow after her until the pinfold large andsmall was full set in the "Center of Kintail." Whenever she heard the cryof the herd she descended and they aimed at her with the silver bullet, asthe wise man told them to do, and she fell gently among them. Men liftedthe remains and carried them to Lochaber, and to make sure that dead oralive she would do no more injury to them, they buried her in Achnacarry.and the person from whom the story was first heard nine years ago (1880)said that he could put his foot on the place where she was buried.The Norse King was amazed at his daughter not returning, and at his notreceiving any account from her. He sent abroad to get tidings of her. Whenthe news of the disaster that happened to her was brought to him, he senta boat and crew to bring her home, but the Lochaber women by theirincantations destroyed those whom he sent. The boat was wrecked, and themen lost, at the entrance to Locheil. The next ships that came were notmore successful. The third time the King sent out his most powerful fleet.What they did then was to send and try through spells to dry up the wellsof the Fairy Hill of Iona. The virtue of these wells was that wind couldbe obtained from any desired quarter by emptying them in the direction ofthe wind wished for. When the ships were seen approaching, the wells beganto be emptied, and before the last handful was flung out, the storm was soviolent, and the ships so near, that the whole fleet was driven on thebeach under the Fairy Hill, and the power and might of the Norsemen wasbroken and so much weakened that they did not return again to infest theland.