Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had a wife and twochildren, a boy and a girl. He was so poor that he possessednothing in the world but the ashes on his hearth.His wife died, and after a time he married another woman, whowas cantankerous and bad natured, and from morning till evening,as long as the day lasted, she gave the poor man no peace, butsnarled and shouted at him.The woman said to him, "Do away with these children. You cannoteven keep me. How then can you keep all these mouths?" for was shenot a stepmother?The poor man stood her nagging for a long time, but then, onenight, she quarreled so much that he promised her that he wouldtake the children into the forest and leave them there. The twochildren were sitting in the corner but held their peace and heardall that was going on.The next day, the man, taking his ax upon his shoulder, calledto the children and said to them, "Come with me into the forest. Iam going to cut wood."The little children went with him, but before they left, thelittle girl filled her pocket with ashes from the hearth, and asshe walked along she dropped little bits of coal the way theywent.After a time they reached a very dense part of the forest,where they could not see their way any longer, and there the mansaid to the children, "Wait here for a while. I am only going tocut wood yonder. When I have done I will come back and fetch youhome." And leaving the children there in the thicket, he wentaway, heavy hearted, and returned home.The children waited for a while, and seeing that their fatherdid not return, the girl knew what he had done. So they sleptthrough the night in the forest, and the next morning, taking herbrother by the hand, she followed the trace of the ashes which shehad left on the road, and thus came home to their own house.When the stepmother saw them, she did not know what to do withherself. She went almost out of her mind with fury. If she could,she would have swallowed them in a spoonful of water, so furiouswas she.The husband, who was a weakling, tried to pacify her, and toendeavor to get the children away by one means or another, but didnot succeed.When the stepmother found that she could not do anythingthrough her husband, she made up her mind that she herself wouldget rid of them. So one morning, when her husband had gone away,she took the little boy, and without saying anything to anybody,she killed him and gave him to his sister to cut him up, andprepare a meal for all of them. What was she to do? If she was notto be killed like her brother, she had to do what her stepmothertold her.And so she cut him up and cooked him ready for the meal But shetook the heart, and hid it away in a hollow of a tree. When thestepmother asked her where the heart was, she said that a dog hadcome and taken it away.In the evening, when the husband came home, she brought thebroth with the meat for the husband to eat, and she sat down andate of it, and so did the husband, not knowing that he was eatingthe flesh of his child. The little girl refused to eat it. Shewould not touch it. After they had finished, she gathered up allthe little bones and hid them in the hollow of the tree where shehad put the heart.The next morning, out of that hollow of the tree there came alittle bird with dark feathers, and sitting on the branch of atree, began to sing, "Cuckoo! My sister has cooked me, and myfather has eaten me, but I am now a cuckoo and safe from mystepmother."When the stepmother, who happened to be near the tree, heardwhat that little bird was singing, in her fury and fright she tooka heavy lump of salt which lay near at hand, and threw it at thecuckoo. But instead of hitting it, the lump fell down on her headand killed her on the spot.And the little boy has remained a cuckoo to this very day.