There was once a poor widow with an only son, and whose brother in lawwas a steward. One day she said to her child, "Go to your uncle and askhim to give you something to keep you from starving."The boy went to the farm and asked his uncle to help him a little. "Weare dying of hunger, uncle. My mother earns a little by weaving, and I amtoo small to find anything. Be charitable to us, for we are yourrelatives."The steward answered, "Why not? You should have come sooner, and Iwould have helped you the sooner. But now I will give you something tosupport you always, without need of anything more. I will give you thislittle ass that lays money. You have only to put a cloth under him, and hewill fill it for you with handsome coins. But take care! Don't tell it,and don't leave this animal with anyone."The youth departed in joy, and after he had traveled a long way, hestopped at an inn to sleep, for his house was distant. He said to thelandlord, "Give me a lodging, but look! my ass spends the night withme.""What!" said the landlord. "What are you thinking about! It cannotbe."The youth replied, "Yes it can be, because my ass does not leave myside."They disputed a while, but the landlord finally consented. But he hadsome suspicions. and when the boy and his beast were shut in the room, helooked through the keyhole, and saw that wonder of an ass that laid moneyin abundance."Bless me!" cried the host. "I should be a fool, indeed, if I let thispiece of good fortune escape my hands!"He at once looked for another ass of the same color and size, and whilethe lad was asleep, exchanged them. In the morning the boy paid his billand departed, but on the way, the ass no longer laid any money. Thestupefied child did not know what to think at first, but afterwardexamining it more closely, it appeared to him that the ass was not his,and straightway he returned to the innkeeper, to complain of hisdeception.The landlord cried out, "I wonder at your saying such a thing! We areall honest people here, and don't steal anything from anybody. Go away,blockhead, or you will find something to remember a while."The child, weeping, had to depart with his ass, and he went back to hisuncle's farm, and told him what had happened. The uncle said, "If you hadnot stopped at the innkeeper's, you could not have met with thismisfortune. However, I have another present to help you and you mother.But take care! Do not mention it to anyone, and take good care of it. Hereit is. I give you a tablecloth, and whenever you say, 'Tablecloth, makeready,' after having spread it out, you will see a fine repast at yourpleasure."The youth took the tablecloth in delight, thanked his uncle, anddeparted. But like the fool he was, he stopped again at the same inn. Hesaid to the landlord, "Give you a room, and you need not prepare anythingto eat. I have all I want with me."The crafty innkeeper suspected that there was something beneath this,and when the lad was in his room, he looked through the keyhole, and sawthe tablecloth preparing the supper. The host exclaimed, "What good luckfor my inn! I will not let it escape me."He quickly looked for another tablecloth like this one, with the sameembroidery and fringe, and while the child was sleeping, he exchanged itfor the magic one, so that in the morning the lad did not perceive theknavery.Not until he had reached a forest where he was hungry, did he want tomake use of the tablecloth. But it was in vain that he spread it out andcried, "Tablecloth, make ready." The tablecloth was not the same one, andmade nothing ready for him. In despair the boy went back to the innkeeperto complain, and the landlord would have thrashed him if he had not runaway, and he ran until he reached his uncle's.His uncle, when he saw him in such a plight, said, "Oh! What is thematter?""Uncle!" said the boy, "the same innkeeper has changed the tablecloth,too, for me."The uncle was on the point of giving the dunce a good thrashing. butafterward, seeing that it was a child, he calmed his anger, and said, "Iunderstand. But I will give you a remedy by which you can get backeverything from that thief of a landlord. Here it is! It is a stick. Hideit under your bolster, and if anyone comes to rob you of it, say to it, ina low voice, 'Beat, beat!' and it will continue to do so until you say toit, 'Stop.'"Imagine how joyfully the boy took the stick! It was a handsome polishedstick, with a gold handle, and delighted one only to see it. So the boythanked his uncle for his kindness, and after he had journeyed a while, hecame to the same inn. He said, "Landlord, I wish to lodge heretonight."The landlord at once drew his conclusions about the stick, which theboy carried openly in his hands, and at night when the lad appeared to besound asleep, but really was on the watch, the landlord felt softly underthe bolster and drew out the stick.The boy, although it was dark, perceived the theft, and said in a lowvoice, "Beat, beat, beat!"Suddenly blows were rained down without mercy. everything broken topieces, the chest of drawers, the looking glass, all the chairs, the glassin the windows. and the landlord, and those that came at the noise, beatennearly to death. The landlord screamed to split his throat, "Save me, boy,I am dead!"The boy answered, "What! I will not deliver you, if you do not give meback my property   the ass that lays gold and the tablecloth thatprepares dinner." And if the landlord did not want to die of the blows, hehad to consent to the boy's wishes.When he had his things back, the boy went home to his mother and toldher what had happened to him, and then said, "Now we do not need anythingmore. I have an ass that lays money, a tablecloth that prepares food at mywill, and a stick to defend me from whoever annoys me."So that woman and her son, who, from want had become rich enough tocause everyone envy, wished from pride to invite their relatives to abanquet, to make them acquainted with their wealth. On the appointed daythe relatives came to the woman's new house. But noon strikes, and oneo'clock strikes. It is almost two, and in the kitchen the fire is seenextinguished, and there were no provisions anywhere."Are they playing a joke on us?" said the relatives. "We shall have todepart with dry teeth."At that moment, however, the clock struck two, and the lad, afterspreading the cloth on the table, commanded, "Tablecloth, prepare a grandbanquet." In short, those people had a fine dinner and many presents inmoney, and the boy and his mother remained in triumph and joy.