From the German of Grimm.A poor woodcutter lived with his wife and three daughters in a littlehut on the borders of a great forest.One morning as he was going to his work, he said to his wife, 'Let oureldest daughter bring me my lunch into the wood. and so that she shallnot lose her way, I will take a bag of millet with me, and sprinkle theseed on the path.'When the sun had risen high over the forest, the girl set out with abasin of soup. But the field and wood sparrows, the larks and finches,blackbirds and green finches had picked up the millet long ago, and thegirl could not find her way.She went on and on, till the sun set and night came on. The treesrustled in the darkness, the owls hooted, and she began to be very muchfrightened. Then she saw in tile distance a light that twinkled betweenthe trees. 'There must be people living yonder,' she thought, 'who willtake me in for the night,' and she began walking towards it.Not long afterwards she came to a house with lights in the windows.She knocked at the door, and a gruff voice called, 'Come in!'The girl stepped into the dark entrance, and tapped at the door of theroom.'Just walk in,' cried the voice, and when she opened the door there satan old gray haired man at the table. His face was resting on his hands,and his white beard flowed over the table almost down to the ground.By the stove lay three beasts, a hen, a cock, and a brindled cow. Thegirl told the old man her story, and asked for a night's lodging.The man said:Pretty cock,Pretty hen,And you, pretty brindled cow,What do you say now?'Duks,' answered the beasts. and that must have meant, 'We are quitewilling,' for the old man went on, 'Here is abundance. go into the backkitchen and cook us a supper.'The girl found plenty of everything in the kitchen, and cooked a goodmeal, but she did not think of the beasts.She placed the full dishes on the table, sat down opposite thegray haired man, and ate till her hunger was appeased.When she was satisfied, she said, 'But now I am so tired, where is a bedin which I can sleep? 'The beasts answered:You have eaten with him,You have drunk with him,Of us you have not thought,Sleep then as you ought!Then the old man said, 'Go upstairs, and there you will find a bedroom.shake the bed, and put clean sheets on, and go to sleep.'The maiden went upstairs, and when she had made the bed, she lay down.After some time the gray haired man came, looked at her by the lightof his candle, and shook his head. And when he saw that she was soundasleep, he opened a trapdoor and let her fall into the cellar.The woodcutter came home late in the evening, and reproached his wifefor leaving him all day without food.'No, I did not,' she answered. 'the girl went off with your dinner. Shemust have lost her way, but will no doubt come back to morrow.'But at daybreak the woodcutter started off into the wood, and this timeasked his second daughter to bring his food.'I will take a bag of lentils,' said he. 'they are larger than millet,and the girl will see them better and be sure to find her way.'At midday the maiden took the food, but the lentils had all gone. as onthe previous day, the wood birds had eaten them all.The maiden wandered about the wood till nightfall, when she came inthe same way to the old man's house, and asked for food and a night'slodging.The man with the white hair again asked the beasts:Pretty cock,Pretty hen,And you, pretty brindled cow,What do you say now?The beasts answered, 'Duks,' and everything happened as on the formerday.The girl cooked a good meal, ate and drank with the old man, and did nottrouble herself about the animals.And when she asked for a bed, they replied:You have eaten with himYou have drunk with him,Of us you have not thought,Now sleep as you ought!And when she was asleep, the old man shook his head over her, and lether fall into the cellar.On the third morning the woodcutter said to his wife, 'Send our youngestchild to day with my dinner. She is always good and obedient, and willkeep to the right path, and not wander away like her sisters, idledrones!'But the mother said, 'Must I lose my dearest child too?''Do not fear,' he answered. 'she is too clever and intelligent to loseher way. I will take plenty of peas with me and strew them along. theyare even larger than lentils, and will show her the way.'But when the maiden started off with the basket on her arm, the woodpigeons had eaten up the peas, and she did not know which way to go. Shewas much distressed, and thought constantly of her poor hungry fatherand her anxious mother. At last, when it grew dark, she saw the littlelight, and came to the house in the wood. She asked prettily if shemight stay there for the night, and the man with the white beard askedhis beasts again:Pretty cock,Pretty hen,And you, pretty brindled cow,What do you say now?'Duks,' they said. Then the maiden stepped up to the stove where theanimals were lying, and stroked the cock and the hen, and scratched thebrindled cow between its horns.And when at the bidding of the old man she had prepared a good supper,and the dishes were standing on the table, she said, 'Shall I haveplenty while the good beasts have nothing? There is food to spareoutside. I will attend to them first.'Then she went out and fetched barley and strewed it before the cock andhen, and brought the cow an armful of sweet smelling hay.'Eat that, dear beasts,' she said,' and when you are thirsty you shallhave a good drink.'Then she fetched a bowl of water, and the cock and hen flew on to theedge, put their beaks in, and then held up their heads as birds do whenthey drink, and the brindled cow also drank her fill. When the beastswere satisfied, the maiden sat down beside the old man at the table andate what was left for her. Soon the cock and hen began to tuck theirheads under their wings, and the brindled cow blinked its eyes, so themaiden said, 'Shall we not go to rest now?'Pretty cock,Pretty hen,And you, pretty brindled cow,What do you say now?The animals said, 'Duks:You have eaten with us,You have drunk with us,You have tended us right,So we wish you good night.'The maiden therefore went upstairs, made the bed and put on clean sheetsand fell asleep. She slept peacefully till midnight, when there was sucha noise in the house that she awoke. Everything trembled and shook. theanimals sprang up and dashed themselves in terror against the wall. thebeams swayed as if they would be torn from their foundations, it seemedas if the stairs were tumbling down, and then the roof fell in with acrash. Then all became still, and as no harm came to the maiden she laydown again and fell asleep. But when she awoke again in broad daylight,what a sight met her eyes! She was lying in a splendid room furnishedwith royal splendour. the walls were covered with golden flowers on agreen ground. the bed was of ivory and the counterpane of velvet, and ona stool near by lay a pair of slippers studded with pearls. The maidenthought she must be dreaming, but in came three servants richly dressed,who asked what were her commands. 'Go,' said the maiden, 'I will get upat once and cook the old man's supper for him, and then I will feed thepretty cock and hen and the brindled cow.'But the door opened and in came a handsome young man, who said, 'I am aking's son, and was condemned by a wicked witch to live as an old manin this wood with no company but that of my three servants, who weretransformed into a cock, a hen, and a brindled cow. The spell could onlybe broken by the arrival of a maiden who should show herself kindnot only to men but to beasts. You are that maiden, and last night atmidnight we were freed, and this poor house was again transformed intomy royal palace.As they stood there the king's son told his three servants to go andfetch the maiden's parents to be present at the wedding feast.'But where are my two sisters?' asked the maid.'I shut them up in the cellar, but in the morning they shall be ledforth into the forest and shall serve a charcoal burner until they haveimproved, and will never again suffer poor animals to go hungry.'