THERE was once upon a time a marvellous musician. One day he waswandering through a wood all by himself, thinking now of one thing, nowof another, till there was nothing else left to think about. Then hesaid to himself:'Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood. Imust try and find a pleasant companion.'So he took his fiddle out, and fiddled till he woke the echoes round.After a time a wolf came through the thicket and trotted up to themusician.'Oh! it's a Wolf, is it?' said he. 'I've not the smallest wish for hissociety.'But the Wolf approached him and said:'Oh, my dear musician, how beautifully you play! I wish you'd teach mehow it's done.''That's easily learned,' answered the fiddler. 'you must only do exactlyas I tell you.''Of course I will,' replied the Wolf. 'I can promise that you will findme a most apt pupil.'So they joined company and went on their way together, and after a timethey came to an old oak tree, which was hollow and had a crack in themiddle of the trunk.'Now,' said the Musician, 'if you want to learn to fiddle, here's yourchance. Lay your front paws in this crack.'The Wolf did as he was told, and the Musician quickly seized a stone,and wedged both his fore paws so firmly into the crack that he was heldthere, a fast prisoner.'Wait there till I return,' said the Fiddler, and he went on his way.After a time he said to himself again:'Time hangs very heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood. Imust try and find a companion.'So he drew out his fiddle, and fiddled away lustily. Presently a foxslunk through the trees.'Aha I what have we here?' said the Musician. 'A fox. well, I haven'tthe smallest desire for his company.'The Fox came straight up to him and said:'My dear friend, how beautifully you play the fiddle. I would like tolearn how you do it.''Nothing easier,' said the Musician, 'if you'll promise to do exactly asI tell you.''Certainly,' answered the Fox, 'you have only to say the word.''Well, then, follow me,' replied the Fiddler.When they had gone a bit of the way, they came to a path with high treeson each side. Here the Musician halted, bent a stout hazel bough down tothe ground from one side of the path, and put his foot on the end ofit to keep it down. Then he bent a branch down from the other side andsaid:'Give me your left front paw, my little Fox, if you really wish to learnhow it's done.'The Fox did as he was told, and the Musician tied his front paw to theend of one of the branches.'Now, my friend,' he said, 'give me your right paw.'This he bound to the other branch, and having carefully seen that hisknots were all secure, he stepped off the ends of the branches, and theysprang back, leaving the poor Fox suspended in mid air.'Just you wait where you are till I return,' said the Musician, and hewent on his way again.Once more he said to himself:'Time hangs heavily on my hands when I'm all alone in the wood. I musttry and find another companion.'So he took out his fiddle and played as merrily as before. This time alittle hare came running up at the sound.'Oh! here comes a hare,' said the Musician. 'I've not the smallestdesire for his company.''How beautifully you play, dear Mr. Fiddler,' said the little Hare. 'Iwish I could learn how you do it.''It's easily learnt,' answered the Musician. 'just do exactly as I tellyou.''That I will,' said the Hare, 'you will find me a most attentive pupil.'They went on a bit together, till they came to a thin part of the wood,where they found an aspen tree growing. The Musician bound a long cordround the little Hare's neck, the other end of which he fastened to thetree.'Now, my merry little friend,' said the Musician, 'run twenty timesround the tree.'The little Hare obeyed, and when it had run twenty times round the tree,the cord had twisted itself twenty times round the trunk, so that thepoor little beast was held a fast prisoner, and it might bite and tearas much as it liked, it couldn't free itself, and the cord only cut itstender neck.'Wait there till I return,' said the Musician, and went on his way.In the meantime the Wolf had pulled and bitten and scratched at thestone, till at last he succeeded in getting his paws out. Full of anger,he hurried after the Musician, determined when he met him to tear himto pieces. When the Fox saw him running by, he called out as loud as hecould:'Brother Wolf, come to my rescue, the Musician has deceived me too.'The Wolf pulled the branches down, bit the cord in two, and set the Foxfree. So they went on their way together, both vowing vengeance on theMusician. They found the poor imprisoned little Hare, and having set himfree also, they all set out to look for their enemy.During this time the Musician had once more played his fiddle, and hadbeen more fortunate in the result. The sounds pierced to the ears of apoor woodman, who instantly left his work, and with his hatchet underhis arm came to listen to the music.'At last I've got a proper sort of companion,' said the Musician, 'forit was a human being I wanted all along, and not a wild animal.'And he began playing so enchantingly that the poor man stood there as ifbewitched, and his heart leapt for joy as he listened.And as he stood thus, the Wolf and Fox and little Hare came up, and thewoodman saw at once that they meant mischief. He lifted his glitteringaxe and placed himself in front of the Musician, as much as to say: 'Ifyou touch a hair of his head, beware, for you will have to answer for itto me.'Then the beasts were frightened, and they all three ran back into thewood, and the Musician played the woodman one of his best tunes, by wayof thanks, and then continued his way.(32)(32) Grimm.