A cat had made acquaintance with a mouse, and had spoken so much ofthe great love and friendship she felt for her, that at last the Mouseconsented to live in the same house with her, and to go shares in thehousekeeping. 'But we must provide for the winter or else we shallsuffer hunger,' said the Cat. 'You, little Mouse, cannot ventureeverywhere in case you run at last into a trap.' This good counsel wasfollowed, and a little pot of fat was bought. But they did not knowwhere to put it. At length, after long consultation, the Cat said, 'Iknow of no place where it could be better put than in the church. No onewill trouble to take it away from there. We will hide it in a corner,and we won't touch it till we are in want.' So the little pot was placedin safety. but it was not long before the Cat had a great longing forit, and said to the Mouse, 'I wanted to tell you, little Mouse, that mycousin has a little son, white with brown spots, and she wants me to begodmother to it. Let me go out to day, and do you take care of the housealone.''Yes, go certainly,' replied the Mouse, 'and when you eat anythinggood, think of me. I should very much like a drop of the red christeningwine.'But it was all untrue. The Cat had no cousin, and had not been asked tobe godmother. She went straight to the church, slunk to the little potof fat, began to lick it, and licked the top off. Then she took a walkon the roofs of the town, looked at the view, stretched herself out inthe sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the little pot offat. As soon as it was evening she went home again.'Ah, here you are again!' said the Mouse. 'you must certainly have hadan enjoyable day.''It went off very well,' answered the Cat.'What was the child's name?' asked the Mouse.'Top Off,' said the Cat drily.'Topoff!' echoed the Mouse, 'it is indeed a wonderful and curious name.Is it in your family?''What is there odd about it?' said the Cat. 'It is not worse thanBreadthief, as your godchild is called.'Not long after this another great longing came over the Cat. She said tothe Mouse, 'You must again be kind enough to look after the house alone,for I have been asked a second time to stand godmother, and as thischild has a white ring round its neck, I cannot refuse.'The kind Mouse agreed, but the Cat slunk under the town wall to thechurch, and ate up half of the pot of fat. 'Nothing tastes better,' saidshe, 'than what one eats by oneself,' and she was very much pleased withher day's work. When she came home the Mouse asked, 'What was this childcalled?''Half Gone,' answered the Cat.'Halfgone! what a name! I have never heard it in my life. I don'tbelieve it is in the calendar.'Soon the Cat's mouth began to water once more after her lickingbusiness. 'All good things in threes,' she said to the Mouse. 'I haveagain to stand godmother. The child is quite black, and has very whitepaws, but not a single white hair on its body. This only happens once intwo years, so you will let me go out?''Topoff! Halfgone!' repeated the Mouse, 'they are such curious names.they make me very thoughtful.''Oh, you sit at home in your dark grey coat and your long tail,' saidthe Cat, 'and you get fanciful. That comes of not going out in the day.'The Mouse had a good cleaning out while the Cat was gone, and made thehouse tidy. but the greedy Cat ate the fat every bit up.'When it is all gone one can be at rest,' she said to herself, and atnight she came home sleek and satisfied. The Mouse asked at once afterthe third child's name.'It won't please you any better,' said the Cat, 'he was called CleanGone.''Cleangone!' repeated the Mouse. 'I do not believe that name has beenprinted any more than the others. Cleangone! What can it mean?' Sheshook her head, curled herself up, and went to sleep.From this time on no one asked the Cat to stand godmother. but whenthe winter came and there was nothing to be got outside, the Mouseremembered their provision and said, 'Come, Cat, we will go to our potof fat which we have stored away. it will taste very good.''Yes, indeed,' answered the Cat. 'it will taste as good to you as ifyou stretched your thin tongue out of the window.'They started off, and when they reached it they found the pot in itsplace, but quite empty!'Ah,' said the Mouse,' 'now I know what has happened! It has all comeout! You are a true friend to me! You have eaten it all when you stoodgodmother. first the top off, then half of it gone, then  ''Will you be quiet!' screamed the Cat. 'Another word and I will eat youup.''Clean gone' was already on the poor Mouse's tongue, and scarcely was itout than the Cat made a spring at her, seized and swallowed her.You see that is the way of the world.