Once upon a time there came to the ancient city of Rahmatabad ajogi of holy appearance, who took up his abodeunder a tree outside the city, where he would sit for days at a timefasting from food and drink, motionless except for the fingers thatturned restlessly his string of beads. The fame of such holiness as thissoon spread, and daily the citizens would flock to see him, eager toget his blessing, to watch his devotions, or to hear his teaching, ifhe were in the mood to speak. Very soon the rajah himself heard of thejogi, and began regularly to visit him to seek his counsel and to askhis prayers that a son might be vouchsafed to him. Days passed by, andat last the rajah became so possessed with the thought of the holy manthat he determined if possible to get him all to himself. So he built inthe neighbourhood a little shrine, with a room or two added to it, and asmall courtyard closely walled up. and, when all was ready, besought thejogi to occupy it, and to receive no other visitors except himself andhis queen and such pupils as the jogi might choose, who would hand downhis teaching. To this the jogi consented. and thus he lived for sometime upon the king's bounty, whilst the fame of his godliness grew dayby day.Now, although the rajah of Rahmatabad had no son, he possessed adaughter, who as she grew up became the most beautiful creature that eyeever rested upon. Her father had long before betrothed her to the son ofthe neighbouring rajah of Dilaram, but as yet she had not been marriedto him, and lived the quiet life proper to a maiden of her beauty andposition. The princess had of course heard of the holy man and of hismiracles and his fasting, and she was filled with curiosity to see andto speak to him. but this was difficult, since she was not allowed to goout except into the palace grounds, and then was always closely guarded.However, at length she found an opportunity, and made her way oneevening alone to the hermit's shrine.Unhappily, the hermit was not really as holy as he seemed. for no soonerdid he see the princess than he fell in love with her wonderful beauty,and began to plot in his heart how he could win her for his wife. Butthe maiden was not only beautiful, she was also shrewd. and as soon asshe read in the glance of the jogi the love that filled his soul, shesprang to her feet, and, gathering her veil about her, ran from theplace as fast as she could. The jogi tried to follow, but he was nomatch for her. so, beside himself with rage at finding that he could notovertake her, he flung at her a lance, which wounded her in the leg. Thebrave princess stooped for a second to pluck the lance out of the wound,and then ran on until she found herself safe at home again. There shebathed and bound up the wound secretly, and told no one how naughty shehad been, for she knew that her father would punish her severely.Next day, when the king went to visit the jogi, the holy man wouldneither speak to nor look at him.'What is the matter?' asked the king. 'Won't you speak to me to day?''I have nothing to say that you would care to hear,' answered the jogi.'Why?' said the king. 'Surely you know that I value all that you say,whatever it may be.'But still the jogi sat with his face turned away, and the more the kingpressed him the more silent and mysterious he became. At last, aftermuch persuasion, he said:'Let me tell you, then, that there is in this city a creature which,if you do not put an end to it, will kill every single person in theplace.'The king, who was easily frightened, grew pale.'What?' he gasped 'what is this dreadful thing? How am I to know itand to catch it? Only counsel me and help me, and I will do all that youadvise.''Ah!' replied the jogi, 'it is indeed dreadful. It is in the shape of abeautiful girl, but it is really an evil spirit. Last evening it came tovisit me, and when I looked upon it its beauty faded into hideousness,its teeth became horrible fangs, its eyes glared like coals of fire,great claws sprang from its slender fingers, and were I not what I am itmight have consumed me.'The king could hardly speak from alarm, but at last he said:'How am I to distinguish this awful thing when I see it?''Search,' said the jogi, 'for a lovely girl with a lance wound in herleg, and when she is found secure her safely and come and tell me, and Iwill advise you what to do next.'Away hurried the king, and soon set all his soldiers scouring thecountry for a girl with a lance wound in her left. For two days thesearch went on, and then it was somehow discovered that the only personwith a lance wound in the leg was the princess herself. The king,greatly agitated, went off to tell the jogi, and to assure him thatthere must be some mistake. But of course the jogi was prepared forthis, and had his answer ready.'She is not really your daughter, who was stolen away at her birth, butan evil spirit that has taken her form,' said he solemnly. 'You can dowhat you like, but if you don't take my advice she will kill you all.'And so solemn he appeared, and so unshaken in his confidence, that theking's wisdom was blinded, and he declared that he would do whatever thejogi advised, and believe whatever he said. So the jogi directed him tosend him secretly two carpenters. and when they arrived he set them tomake a great chest, so cunningly jointed and put together that neitherair nor water could penetrate it. There and then the chest was made,and, when it was ready, the jogi bade the king to bring the princessby night. and they two thrust the poor little maiden into the chest andfastened it down with long nails, and between them carried it to theriver and pushed it out into the stream.As soon as the jogi got back from this deed he called two of his pupils,and pretended that it had been revealed to him that there should befound floating on the river a chest with something of great price withinit. and he bade them go and watch for it at such a place far down thestream, and when the chest came slowly along, bobbing and turning in thetide, they were to seize it and secretly and swiftly bring it to him,for he was now determined to put the princess to death himself. Thepupils set off at once, wondering at the strangeness of their errand,and still more at the holiness of the jogi to whom such secrets wererevealed.It happened that, as the next morning was dawning, the gallant youngprince of Dilaram was hunting by the banks of the river, with a greatfollowing of wazirs, attendants, and huntsmen, and as he rode he sawfloating on the river a large chest, which came slowly along, bobbingand turning in the tide. Raising himself in his saddle, he gave anorder, and half a dozen men plunged into the water and drew the chestout on to the river bank, where every one crowded around to see whatit could contain. The prince was certainly not the least curious amongthem. but he was a cautious young man, and, as he prepared to open thechest himself, he bade all but a few stand back, and these few to drawtheir swords, so as to be prepared in case the chest should hold someevil beast, or djinn, or giant. When all were ready and expectant, theprince with his dagger forced open the lid and flung it back, and therelay, living and breathing, the most lovely maiden he had ever seen inhis life.Although she was half stifled from her confinement in the chest, theprincess speedily revived, and, when she was able to sit up, the princebegan to question her as to who she was and how she came to be shutup in the chest and set afloat upon the water. and she, blushing andtrembling to find herself in the presence of so many strangers, told himthat she was the princess of Rahmatabad, and that she had been put intothe chest by her own father. When he on his part told her that hewas the prince of Dilaram, the astonishment of the young people wasunbounded to find that they, who had been betrothed without ever havingseen one another, should have actually met for the first time in suchstrange circumstances. In fact, the prince was so moved by her beautyand modest ways that he called up his wazirs and demanded to be marriedat once to this lovely lady who had so completely won his heart. Andmarried they were then and there upon the river bank, and went home tothe prince's palace, where, when the story was told, they were welcomedby the old rajah, the prince's father, and the remainder of the day wasgiven over to feasting and rejoicing. But when the banquet was over, thebride told her husband that now, on the threshold of their marriedlife, she had more to relate of her adventures than he had given herthe opportunity to tell as yet. and then, without hiding anything, sheinformed him of all that happened to her from the time she had stolenout to visit the wicked jogi.In the morning the prince called his chief wazir and ordered him to shutup in the chest in which the princess had been found a great monkey thatlived chained up in the palace, and to take the chest back to the riverand set it afloat once more and watch what became of it. So the monkeywas caught and put into the chest, and some of the prince's servantstook it down to the river and pushed it off into the water. Then theyfollowed secretly a long way off to see what became of it.Meanwhile the jogi's two pupils watched and watched for the chest untilthey were nearly tired of watching, and were beginning to wonder whetherthe jogi was right after all, when on the second day they spied thegreat chest coming floating on the river, slowly bobbing and turning inthe tide. and instantly a great joy and exultation seized them, for theythought that here indeed was further proof of the wonderful wisdom oftheir master. With some difficulty they secured the chest, and carriedit back as swiftly and secretly as possible to the jogi's house. As soonas they brought in the chest, the jogi, who had been getting very crossand impatient, told them to put it down, and to go outside whilst heopened the magic chest.'And even if you hear cries and sounds, however alarming, you must onno account enter,' said the jogi, walking over to a closet where lay thesilken cord that was to strangle the princess.And the two pupils did as they were told, and went outside and shutclose all the doors. Presently they heard a great outcry within and thejogi's voice crying aloud for help. but they dared not enter, for hadthey not been told that whatever the noise, they must not come in? Sothey sat outside, waiting and wondering. and at last all grew stilland quiet, and remained so for such a long time that they determinedto enter and see if all was well. No sooner had they opened the doorleading into the courtyard than they were nearly upset by a huge monkeythat came leaping straight to the doorway and escaped past them intothe open fields. Then they stepped into the room, and there they saw thejogi's body lying torn to pieces on the threshold of his dwelling!Very soon the story spread, as stories will, and reached the ears of theprincess and her husband, and when she knew that her enemy was dead shemade her peace with her father.From Major Campbell, Feroshepore.