A King was once hunting in a large wood, and pursued his game so hotlythat none of his courtiers could follow him. But when evening approachedhe stopped, and looking around him perceived that he had lost himself.He sought a path out of the forest but could not find one, and presentlyhe saw an old woman, with a nodding head, who came up to him. "My goodwoman," said he to her, "can you not show me the way out of the forest?""Oh, yes, my lord King," she replied. "I can do that very well, but uponone condition, which if you do not fulfil, you will never again get outof the wood, but will die of hunger.""What, then, is this condition?" asked the King."I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as any oneyou can find in die whole world, and well deserves to be your bride.Now, if you will make her your Queen, I will show you your way out ofthe wood." In the anxiety of his heart, the King consented, and the oldwoman led him to her cottage, where the daughter was sitting by thefire. She received the King as if she had expected him, and he saw atonce that she was very beautiful, but yet she did not quite please him,for he could not look at her without a secret shuddering. However, hetook the maiden upon his horse, and the old woman showed him the way,and the King arrived safely at his palace, where the wedding was to becelebrated.The King had been married once before, and had seven children by hisfirst wife, six boys and a girl, whom he loved above everything else inthe world. He became afraid, soon, that the step mother might not treathis children very well, and might even do them some great injury, so hetook them away to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.The castle was so entirely hidden, and the way to it was so difficult todiscover, that he himself could not have found it if a wise woman hadnot given him a ball of cotton which had the wonderful property, when hethrew it before him, of unrolling itself and showing him the right path.The King went, however, so often to see his dear children, that theQueen, noticing his absence, became inquisitive, and wished to know whathe went to fetch out of the forest. So she gave his servants a greatquantity of money, and they disclosed to her the secret, and also toldher of the ball of cotton which alone could show her the way. She hadnow no peace until she discovered where this ball was concealed, andthen she made some fine silken shirts, and, as she had learnt of hermother, she sewed within each a charm. One day soon after, when the Kingwas gone out hunting, she took the little shirts and went into theforest, and the cotton showed her the path. The children, seeing someone coming in the distance, thought it was their dear father, and ranout full of joy. Then she threw over each of them a shirt, that, as ittouched their bodies, changed them into Swans, which flew away over theforest. The Queen then went home quite contented, and thought she wasfree of her step children. but the little girl had not met her with thebrothers, and the Queen did not know of her.The following day the King went to visit his children, but he found onlythe Maiden. "Where are your brothers?" asked he. "Ah, dear father," shereplied, "they are gone away and have left me alone". and she told himhow she had looked out of the window and seen them changed into Swans,which had flown over the forest. and then she showed him the featherswhich they had dropped in the courtyard, and which she had collectedtogether. The King was much grieved, but he did not think that his wifecould have done this wicked deed, and, as he feared the girl might alsobe stolen away, he took her with him. She was, however, so much afraidof the step mother, that she begged him not to stop more than one nightin the castle.The poor Maiden thought to herself, "This is no longer my place. I willgo and seek my brothers". and when night came she escaped and went quitedeep into the wood. She walked all night long, and a great part of thenext day, until she could go no further from weariness. Just then shesaw a rough looking hut, and going in, she found a room with six littlebeds, but she dared not get into one, so crept under, and laying herselfupon the hard earth, prepared to pass the night there. Just as the sunwas setting, she heard a rustling, and saw six white Swans come flyingin at the window. They settled on the ground and began blowing oneanother until they had blown all their feathers off, and their swan'sdown slipped from them like a shirt. Then the Maiden knew them at oncefor her brothers, and gladly crept out from under the bed, and thebrothers were not less glad to see their sister, but their joy was ofshort duration. "Here you must not stay," said they to her. "this is arobbers' hiding place. if they should return and find you here, theywould murder you.""Can you not protect me, then?" inquired the sister."No," they replied. "for we can only lay aside our swan's feathers for aquarter of an hour each evening, and for that time we regain our humanform, but afterwards we resume our changed appearance."Their sister then asked them, with tears, "Can you not be restoredagain?""Oh, no," replied they. "the conditions are too difficult. For six longyears you must neither speak nor laugh, and during that time you mustsew together for us six little shirts of star flowers, and should therefall a single word from your lips, then all your labor will be in vain."Just as the brothers finished speaking, the quarter of an hour elapsed,and they all flew out of the window again like Swans.The little sister, however, made a solemn resolution to rescue herbrothers, or die in the attempt. and she left the cottage, and,penetrating deep into the forest, passed the night amid the branches ofa tree. The next morning she went out and collected the star flowers tosew together. She had no one to converse with and for laughing she hadno spirits, so there up in the tree she sat, intent upon her work.After she had passed some time there, it happened that the King of thatcountry was hunting in the forest, and his huntsmen came beneath thetree on which the Maiden sat. They called to her and asked, "Who artthou?" But she gave no answer. "Come down to us," continued they. "wewill do thee no harm." She simply shook her head, and when they pressedher further with questions, she threw down to them her gold necklace,hoping therewith to satisfy them. They did not, however, leave her, andshe threw down her girdle, but in vain! and even her rich dress did notmake them desist. At last the huntsman himself climbed the tree andbrought down the Maiden, and took her before the King.The King asked her, "Who art thou? What dost thou upon that tree?" Butshe did not answer. and then he questioned her in all the languages thathe knew, but she remained dumb to all, as a fish. Since, however, shewas so beautiful, the King's heart was touched, and he conceived for hera strong affection. Then he put around her his cloak, and, placing herbefore him on his horse, took her to his castle. There he ordered richclothing to be made for her, and, although her beauty shone as thesunbeams, not a word escaped her. The King placed her by his side attable, and there her dignified mien and manners so won upon him, that hesaid, "This Maiden will I marry, and no other in the world." and aftersome days he wedded her.Now, the King had a wicked step mother, who was discontented with hismarriage, and spoke evil of the young Queen. "Who knows whence the wenchcomes?" said she. "She who cannot speak is not worthy of a King." A yearafter, when the Queen brought her first born into the world, the oldwoman took him away. Then she went to the King and complained that theQueen was a murderess. The King, however, would not believe it, andsuffered no one to do any injury to his wife, who sat composedly sewingat her shirts and paying attention to nothing else. When a second childwas born, the false stepmother used the same deceit, but the King againwould not listen to her words, saying, "She is too pious and good to actso. could she but speak and defend herself, her innocence would come tolight." But when again, the old woman stole away the third child, andthen accused the Queen, who answered not a word to the accusation, theKing was obliged to give her up to be tried, and she was condemned tosuffer death by fire.When the time had elapsed, and the sentence was to be carried out, ithappened that the very day had come round when her dear brothers shouldbe set free. the six shirts were also ready, all but the last, which yetwanted the left sleeve. As she was led to the scaffold, she placed theshirts upon her arm, and just as she had mounted it, and the fire wasabout to be kindled, she looked around, and saw six Swans come flyingthrough the air. Her heart leapt for joy as she perceived her deliverersapproaching, and soon the Swans, flying towards her, alighted so nearthat she was enabled to throw over them the shirts, and as soon as shehad done so, their feathers fell off and the brothers stood up alive andwell. but the youngest was without his left arm, instead of which he hada swan's wing. They embraced and kissed each other, and the Queen, goingto the King, who was thunderstruck, began to say, "Now may I speak, mydear husband, and prove to you that I am innocent and falsely accused."and then she told him how the wicked woman had stolen away and hiddenher three children. When she had concluded, the King was overcome withjoy, and the wicked stepmother was led to the scaffold and bound to thestake and burnt to ashes. The King and Queen for ever after lived inpeace and prosperity with their six brothers.