A moujik was driving along one night with a load of pots. His horsegrew tired, and all of a sudden it came to a stand still alongside of agraveyard. The moujik unharnessed his horse and set it free to graze.meanwhile he laid himself down on one of the graves. But somehow he didn'tgo to sleep.He remained lying there some time. Suddenly the grave began to openbeneath him: he felt the movement and sprang to his feet. The graveopened, and out of it came a corpse   wrapped in a white shroud, andholding a coffin lid   came out and ran to the church, laid thecoffin lid at the door, and then set off for the village.The moujik was a daring fellow. He picked up the coffin lid andremained standing beside his cart, waiting to see what would happen. Aftera short delay the dead man came back, and was going to snatch up hiscoffin lid   but it was not to be seen. Then the corpse began to track itout, traced it up to the moujik, and said:"Give me my lid: if you don't, I'll tear you to bits!""And my hatchet, how about that?" answers the moujik. "Why, it's Iwho'll be chopping you into small pieces!""Do give it back to me, good man!" begs the corpse."I'll give it when you tell me where you've been and what you've done.""Well, I've been in the village, and there I've killed a couple ofyoungsters.""Well then, now tell me how they can be brought back to life."The corpse reluctantly made answer:"Cut off the left skirt of my shroud, and take it with you. When youcome into the house where the youngsters were killed, pour some live coalsinto a pot and put the piece of the shroud in with them, and then lock thedoor. The lads will be revived by the smoke immediately."The moujik cut off the left skirt of the shroud, and gave up thecoffin lid. The corpse went to its grave   the grave opened. But just asthe dead man was descending into it, all of a sudden the cocks began tocrow, and he hadn't time to get properly covered over. One end of thecoffin lid remained sticking out of the ground.The moujik saw all this and made a note of it. The day began to dawn.he harnessed his horse and drove into the village.In one of the houses he heard cries and wailing. In he went   therelay two dead lads."Don't cry," says he, "I can bring them to life!""Do bring them to life, kinsman," say their relatives. "We'll give youhalf of all we possess."The moujik did everything as the corpse had instructed him, and thelads came back to life. Their relatives were delighted, but theyimmediately seized the moujik and bound him with cords, saying:"No, no, trickster! We'll hand you over to the authorities. Since youknew how to bring them back to life, maybe it was you who killed them!""What are you thinking about, true believers! Have the fear of Godbefore your eyes!" cried the moujik.Then he told them everything that had happened during the night. Well,they spread the news through the village. the whole population assembledand swarmed into the graveyard. They found out the grave from which thedead man had come out, they tore it open, and they drove an aspen stakeright into the heart of the corpse, so that it might no more rise up andslay. But they rewarded the moujik richly, and sent him away home withgreat honor.