Once there were living in the country in the northern part of Luzon sevencrazy fellows, named Juan, Felipe, Mateo, Pedro, Francisco, Eulalio, andJacinto. They were happy all the day long.One morning Felipe asked his friends to go fishing. They stayed at theCagayan River a long time. About two o'clock in the afternoon Mateo saidto his companions, "We are hungry. let us go home!""Before we go," said Juan, "let us count ourselves, to see that we are allhere!"He counted. but because he forgot to count himself, he found that theywere only six, and said that one of them had been drowned. Thereupon theyall dived into the river to look for their lost companion. and when theycame out, Francisco counted to see if he had been found. but he, too, lefthimself out, so in they dived again.Jacinto said that they should not go home until they had found the one whowas lost. While they were diving, an old man passed by. He asked the foolswhat they were diving for. They said that one of them had been drowned."How many were you at first?" said the old man.They said that they were seven."All right," said the old man. "Dive in, and I will count you."They dived, and he found that they were seven. Since he had found theirlost companion, he asked them to come with him.When they reached the old man's house, he selected Mateo and Francisco tolook after his old wife. Eulalio he chose to be water carrier. Pedro,cook. Jacinto, wood carrier. and Juan and Felipe, his companions inhunting.When the next day came, the old man said that he was going hunting, and hetold Juan and Felipe to bring along rice with them. In a little while theyreached the mountains, and he told the two fools to cook the rice at teno'clock. He then went up the mountain with his dogs to catch a deer. Now,his two companions, who had been left at the foot of the mountain, hadnever seen a deer. When Felipe saw a deer standing under a tree, hethought that the antlers of the deer were the branches of a small treewithout leaves: so he hung his hat and bag of rice on them, but the deerimmediately ran away.When the old man came back, he asked if the rice was ready. Felipe toldhim that he had hung his hat and the rice on a tree that ran away.The old man was angry, and said, "That tree you saw was the antlers of adeer. We'll have to go home now, for we have nothing to eat."Meanwhile the five crazy fellows who had been left at home were not idle.Eulalio went to get a pail of water. When he reached the well and saw hisimage in the water, he nodded, and the reflection nodded back at him. Hedid this over and over again. until finally, becoming tired, he jumpedinto the water, and was drowned.Jacinto was sent to gather small sticks, but he only destroyed the fencearound the garden.Pedro cooked a chicken without removing the feathers. He also let thechicken burn until it was as black as coal.Mateo and Francisco tried to keep the flies off the face of their oldmistress. They soon became tired, because the flies kept coming back. sothey took big sticks to kill them with. When a fly lighted on the nose ofthe old woman, they struck at it so hard that they killed her. She diedwith seemingly a smile on her face. The two fools said to each other thatthe old woman was very much pleased that they had killed the fly.When the old man and his two companions reached home, the old man askedPedro if there was any food to eat. Pedro said that it was in the pot. Theold man looked in and saw the charred chicken and feathers. He was veryangry at the cook.Then he went in to see his wife, and found her dead. He asked Mateo andFrancisco what they had done to the old woman. They said that they hadonly been killing flies that tried to trouble her, and that she was verymuch pleased by their work.The next thing the crazy fellows had to do was to make a coffin for thedead woman. but they made it flat, and in such a way that there wasnothing to prevent the corpse from falling off. The old man told them tocarry the body to the church. but on their way they ran, and the bodyrolled off the flat coffin. They said to each other that running was agood thing, for it made their burden lighter.When the priest found that the corpse was missing, he told the six crazyfellows to go back and get the body. While they were walking toward thehouse, they saw an old woman picking up sticks by the roadside."Old woman, what are you doing here?" they said. "The priest wants to seeyou."While they were binding her, she cried out to her husband, "Ah! here aresome bad boys trying to take me to the church."But her husband said that the crazy fellows were only trying to tease her.When they reached the church with this old woman, the priest, who was alsocrazy, performed the burial ceremony over her. She cried out that she wasalive. but the priest answered that since he had her burial fee, he didnot care whether she was alive or not. So they buried this old woman inthe ground.When they were returning home, they saw the corpse that had fallen fromthe coffin on their way to the church. Francisco cried that it was theghost of the old woman. Terribly frightened, they ran away in differentdirections, and became scattered all over Luzon.