The future Buddha was once born in a minister's family, whenBrahma datta was reigning in Benares. and when he grew up, he becamethe king's adviser in things temporal and spiritual.Now this king was very talkative. while he was speaking, others had noopportunity for a word. And the future Buddha, wanting to cure thistalkativeness of his, was constantly seeking for some means of doingso.At that time there was living, in a pond in the Himalaya mountains, atortoise. Two young hamsas, or wild ducks, who came to feed there,made friends with him. And one day, when they had become very intimatewith him, they said to the tortoise:"Friend tortoise! the place where we live, at the Golden Cave on MountBeautiful in the Himalaya country, is a delightful spot. Will you comethere with us?""But how can I get there?""We can take you, if you can only hold your tongue, and will saynothing to anybody.""Oh! that I can do. Take me with you.""That's right," said they. And making the tortoise bite hold of astick, they themselves took the two ends in their teeth, and flew upinto the air.Seeing him thus carried by the hamsas, some villagers called out, "Twowild ducks are carrying a tortoise along on a stick!" Whereupon thetortoise wanted to say, "If my friends choose to carry me, what isthat to you, you wretched slaves!" So just as the swift flight of thewild ducks had brought him over the king's palace in the city ofBenares, he let go of the stick he was biting, and falling in the opencourtyard, split in two! And there arose a universal cry, "A tortoisehas fallen in the open courtyard, and has split in two!"The king, taking the future Buddha, went to the place, surrounded byhis courtiers. and looking at the tortoise, he asked the Bodisat,"Teacher! how comes he to be fallen here?"The future Buddha thought to himself, "Long expecting, wishing toadmonish the king, have I sought for some means of doing so. Thistortoise must have made friends with the wild ducks. and they musthave made him bite hold of the stick, and have flown up into the airto take him to the hills. But he, being unable to hold his tonguewhen he hears any one else talk, must have wanted to say something,and let go the stick. and so must have fallen down from the sky, andthus lost his life." And saying, "Truly, O king! those who are calledchatter boxes people whose words have no end come to grief likethis," he uttered these Verses:"Verily the tortoise killed himselfWhilst uttering his voice.Though he was holding tight the stick,By a word himself he slew."Behold him then, O excellent by strength!And speak wise words, not out of season.You see how, by his talking overmuch,The tortoise fell into this wretched plight!"The king saw that he was himself referred to, and said, "O Teacher!are you speaking of us?"And the Bodisat spake openly, and said, "O great king! be it thou, orbe it any other, whoever talks beyond measure meets with some mishaplike this."And the king henceforth refrained himself, and became a man of fewwords.