There were once upon a time an old peasant and his wife, and they hadthree sons. Two of them were clever young men who could borrow moneywithout being cheated, but the third was the Fool of the World. He wasas simple as a child, simpler than some children, and he never did anyone a harm in his life.Well, it always happens like that. The father and mother thought a lotof the two smart young men. but the Fool of the World was lucky if hegot enough to eat, because they always forgot him unless they happenedto be looking at him, and sometimes even then.But however it was with his father and mother, this is a story thatshows that God loves simple folk, and turns things to their advantagein the end.For it happened that the Tzar of that country sent out messengersalong the highroads and the rivers, even to huts in the forest likeours, to say that he would give his daughter, the Princess, inmarriage to any one who could bring him a flying ship ay, a ship withwings, that should sail this way and that through the blue sky, like aship sailing on the sea."This is a chance for us," said the two clever brothers. and thatsame day they set off together, to see if one of them could not buildthe flying ship and marry the Tzar's daughter, and so be a great manindeed.And their father blessed them, and gave them finer clothes than everhe wore himself. And their mother made them up hampers of food for theroad, soft white rolls, and several kinds of cooked meats, and bottlesof corn brandy. She went with them as far as the highroad, and wavedher hand to them till they were out of sight. And so the two cleverbrothers set merrily off on their adventure, to see what could be donewith their cleverness. And what happened to them I do not know, forthey were never heard of again.The Fool of the World saw them set off, with their fine parcels offood, and their fine clothes, and their bottles of corn brandy."I'd like to go too," says he, "and eat good meat, with soft whiterolls, and drink corn brandy, and marry the Tzar's daughter.""Stupid fellow," says his mother, "what's the good of your going? Why,if you were to stir from the house you would walk into the arms of abear. and if not that, then the wolves would eat you before you hadfinished staring at them."But the Fool of the World would not be held back by words."I am going," says he. "I am going. I am going. I am going."He went on saying this over and over again, till the old woman hismother saw there was nothing to be done, and was glad to get him outof the house so as to be quit of the sound of his voice. So she putsome food in a bag for him to eat by the way. She put in the bag somecrusts of dry black bread and a flask of water. She did not evenbother to go as far as the footpath to see him on his way. She saw thelast of him at the door of the hut, and he had not taken two stepsbefore she had gone back into the hut to see to more importantbusiness.No matter. The Fool of the World set off with his bag over hisshoulder, singing as he went, for he was off to seek his fortune andmarry the Tzar's daughter. He was sorry his mother had not given himany corn brandy. but he sang merrily for all that. He would have likedwhite rolls instead of the dry black crusts. but, after all, the mainthing on a journey is to have something to eat. So he trudged merrilyalong the road, and sang because the trees were green and there was ablue sky overhead.He had not gone very far when he met an ancient old man with a bentback, and a long beard, and eyes hidden under his bushy eyebrows."Good day, young fellow," says the ancient old man."Good day, grandfather," says the Fool of the World."And where are you off to?" says the ancient old man."What!" says the Fool. "haven't you heard? The Tzar is going to givehis daughter to any one who can bring him a flying ship.""And you can really make a flying ship?" says the ancient old man."No, I do not know how.""Then what are you going to do?""God knows," says the Fool of the World."Well," says the ancient, "if things are like that, sit you down here.We will rest together and have a bite of food. Bring out what you havein your bag.""I am ashamed to offer you what I have here. It is good enough for me,but it is not the sort of meal to which one can ask guests.""Never mind that. Out with it. Let us eat what God has given."The Fool of the World opened his bag, and could hardly believe hiseyes. Instead of black crusts he saw fresh white rolls and cookedmeats. He handed them out to the ancient, who said, "You see how Godloves simple folk. Although your own mother does not love you, youhave not been done out of your share of the good things. Let's have asip at the corn brandy...."The Fool of the World opened his flask, and instead of water therecame out corn brandy, and that of the best. So the Fool and theancient made merry, eating and drinking. and when they had done, andsung a song or two together, the ancient says to the Fool, "Listen to me. Off with you into the forest. Go up to the first bigtree you see. Make the sacred sign of the cross three times before it.Strike it a blow with your little hatchet. Fall backwards on theground, and lie there, full length on your back, until somebody wakesyou up. Then you will find the ship made, all ready to fly. Sit youdown in it, and fly off whither you want to go. But be sure on the wayto give a lift to everyone you meet."The Fool of the World thanked the ancient old man, said good bye tohim, and went off to the forest. He walked up to a tree, the first bigtree he saw, made the sign of the cross three times before it, swunghis hatchet round his head, struck a mighty blow on the trunk of thetree, instantly fell backwards flat on the ground, closed his eyes,and went to sleep.A little time went by, and it seemed to the Fool as he slept thatsomebody was jogging his elbow. He woke up and opened his eyes. Hishatchet, worn out, lay beside him. The big tree was gone, and in itsplace there stood a little ship, ready and finished. The Fool did notstop to think. He jumped into the ship, seized the tiller, and satdown. Instantly the ship leapt up into the air, and sailed away overthe tops of the trees.The little ship answered the tiller as readily as if she were sailingin water, and the Fool steered for the highroad, and sailed alongabove it, for he was afraid of losing his way if he tried to steer acourse across the open country.He flew on and on, and looked down, and saw a man lying in the roadbelow him with his ear on the damp ground."Good day to you, uncle," cried the Fool."Good day to you, Sky fellow," cried the man."What are you doing down there?" says the Fool."I am listening to all that is being done in the world.""Take your place in the ship with me."The man was willing enough, and sat down in the ship with the Fool,and they flew on together singing songs.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man on one leg,with the other tied up to his head."Good day, uncle," says the Fool, bringing the ship to the ground."Why are you hopping along on one foot?""If I were to untie the other I should move too fast. I should bestepping across the world in a single stride.""Sit down with us," says the Fool.The man sat down with them in the ship, and they flew on togethersinging songs.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man with a gun,and he was taking aim, but what he was aiming at they could not see."Good health to you, uncle," says the Fool. "But what are you shootingat? There isn't a bird to be seen.""What!" says the man. "If there were a bird that you could see, Ishould not shoot at it. A bird or a beast a thousand versts away,that's the sort of mark for me.""Take your seat with us," says the Fool.The man sat down with them in the ship, and they flew on together.Louder and louder rose their songs.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man carrying asack full of bread on his back."Good health to you, uncle," says the Fool, sailing down. "And whereare you off to?""I am going to get bread for my dinner.""But you've got a full sack on your back.""That that little scrap! Why, that's not enough for a singlemouthful.""Take your seat with us," says the Fool.The Eater sat down with them in the ship, and they flew on together,singing louder than ever.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man walkinground and round a lake."Good health to you, uncle," says the Fool. "What are you lookingfor?""I want a drink, and I can't find any water.""But there's a whole lake in front of your eyes. Why can't you take adrink from that?""That little drop!" says the man. "Why, there's not enough water thereto wet the back of my throat if I were to drink it at one gulp.""Take your seat with us," says the Fool.The Drinker sat down with them, and again they flew on, singing inchorus.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man walkingtowards the forest, with a fagot of wood on his shoulders."Good day to you, uncle," says the Fool. "Why are you taking wood tothe forest?""This isn't simple wood," says the man."What is it, then?" says the Fool."If it is scattered about, a whole army of soldiers leaps up out ofthe ground.""There's a place for you with us," says the Fool.The man sat down with them, and the ship rose up into the air, andflew on, carrying its singing crew.They flew on and on, and looked down, and there was a man carrying asack of straw."Good health to you, uncle," says the Fool. "and where are you takingyour straw?""To the village.""Why, are they short of straw in your village?""No. but this is such straw that if you scatter it abroad in the veryhottest of the summer, instantly the weather turns cold, and there issnow and frost.""There's a place here for you too," says the Fool."Very kind of you," says the man, and steps in and sits down, and awaythey all sail together, singing like to burst their lungs.They did not meet any one else, and presently came flying up to thepalace of the Tzar. They flew down and cast anchor in the courtyard.Just then the Tzar was eating his dinner. He heard their loud singing,and looked out of the window and saw the ship come sailing down intohis courtyard. He sent his servant out to ask who was the great princewho had brought him the flying ship, and had come sailing down withsuch a merry noise of singing.The servant came up to the ship, and saw the Fool of the World and hiscompanions sitting there cracking jokes. He saw they were all moujiks,simple peasants, sitting in the ship. so he did not stop to askquestions, but came back quietly and told the Tzar that there were nogentlemen in the ship at all, but only a lot of dirty peasants.Now the Tzar was not at all pleased with the idea of giving his onlydaughter in marriage to a simple peasant, and he began to think how hecould get out of his bargain. Thinks he to himself, "I'll set themsuch tasks that they will not be able to perform, and they'll be gladto get off with their lives, and I shall get the ship for nothing."So he told his servant to go to the Fool and tell him that before theTzar had finished his dinner the Fool was to bring him some of themagical water of life.Now, while the Tzar was giving this order to his servant, theListener, the first of the Fool's companions, was listening, and heardthe words of the Tzar and repeated them to the Fool."What am I to do now?" says the Fool, stopping short in his jokes. "Ina year, in a whole century, I never could find that water. And hewants it before he has finished his dinner.""Don't you worry about that," says the Swift goer, "I'll deal withthat for you."The servant came and announced the Tzar's command."Tell him he shall have it," says the Fool.His companion, the Swift goer, untied his foot from beside his head,put it to the ground, wriggled it a little to get the stiffness out ofit, ran off, and was out of sight almost before he had stepped fromthe ship. Quicker than I can tell it you in words he had come to thewater of life, and put some of it in a bottle."I shall have plenty of time to get back," thinks he, and down he sitsunder a windmill and goes off to sleep.The royal dinner was coming to an end, and there wasn't a sign of him.There were no songs and no jokes in the flying ship. Everybody waswatching for the Swift goer, and thinking he would not be in time.The Listener jumped out and laid his right ear to the damp ground,listened a moment, and said, "What a fellow! He has gone to sleepunder the windmill. I can hear him snoring. And there is a fly buzzingwith its wings, perched on the windmill close above his head.""This is my affair," says the Far shooter, and he picked up his gunfrom between his knees, aimed at the fly on the windmill, and woke theSwift goer with the thud of the bullet on the wood of the mill closeby his head. The Swift goer leapt up and ran, and in less than asecond had brought the magic water of life and given it to the Fool.The Fool gave it to the servant, who took it to the Tzar. The Tzar hadnot yet left the table, so that his command had been fulfilled asexactly as ever could be."What fellows these peasants are," thought the Tzar. "There is nothingfor it but to set them another task." So the Tzar said to his servant,"Go to the captain of the flying ship and give him this message: 'Ifyou are such a cunning fellow, you must have a good appetite. Let youand your companions eat at a single meal twelve oxen roasted whole,and as much bread as can be baked in forty ovens!'"The Listener heard the message, and told the Fool what was coming. TheFool was terrified, and said, "I can't get through even a single loafat a sitting.""Don't worry about that," said the Eater. "It won't be more than amouthful for me, and I shall be glad to have a little snack in placeof my dinner."The servant came, and announced the Tzar's command."Good," says the Fool. "Send the food along, and we'll know what to dowith it."So they brought twelve oxen roasted whole, and as much bread as couldbe baked in forty ovens, and the companions had scarcely sat down tothe meal before the Eater had finished the lot."Why," said the Eater, "what a little! They might have given us adecent meal while they were about it."The Tzar told his servant to tell the Fool that he and his companionswere to drink forty barrels of wine, with forty bucketfuls in everybarrel.The Listener told the Fool what message was coming."Why," says the Fool, "I never in my life drank more than one bucketat a time.""Don't worry," says the Drinker. "You forget that I am thirsty. It'llbe nothing of a drink for me."They brought the forty barrels of wine, and tapped them, and theDrinker tossed them down one after another, one gulp for each barrel."Little enough," says he, "Why, I am thirsty still.""Very good," says the Tzar to his servant, when he heard that they hadeaten all the food and drunk all the wine. "Tell the fellow to getready for the wedding, and let him go and bathe himself in thebath house. But let the bath house be made so hot that the man willstifle and frizzle as soon as he sets foot inside. It is an ironbath house. Let it be made red hot."The Listener heard all this and told the Fool, who stopped short withhis mouth open in the middle of a joke."Don't you worry," says the moujik with the straw.Well, they made the bath house red hot, and called the Fool, and theFool went along to the bath house to wash himself, and with him wentthe moujik with the straw.They shut them both into the bath house, and thought that that was theend of them. But the moujik scattered his straw before them as theywent in, and it became so cold in there that the Fool of the World hadscarcely time to wash himself before the water in the cauldrons frozeto solid ice. They lay down on the very stove itself, and spent thenight there, shivering.In the morning the servants opened the bath house, and there were theFool of the World and the moujik, alive and well, lying on the stoveand singing songs.They told the Tzar, and the Tzar raged with anger. "There is nogetting rid of this fellow," says he. "But go and tell him that I sendhim this message: 'If you are to marry my daughter, you must show thatyou are able to defend her. Let me see that you have at least aregiment of soldiers,'" Thinks he to himself, "How can a simplepeasant raise a troop? He will find it hard enough to raise a singlesoldier."The Listener told the Fool of the World, and the Fool began to lament."This time," says he, "I am done indeed. You, my brothers, have savedme from misfortune more than once, but this time, alas, there isnothing to be done.""Oh, what a fellow you are!" says the peasant with the fagot of wood."I suppose you've forgotten about me. Remember that I am the man forthis little affair, and don't you worry about it at all."The Tzar's servant came along and gave his message."Very good," says the Fool. "but tell the Tzar that if after this heputs me off again, I'll make war on his country, and take the Princessby force."And then, as the servant went back with the message, the whole crew onthe flying ship set to their singing again, and sang and laughed andmade jokes as if they had not a care in the world.During the night, while the others slept, the peasant with the fagotof wood went hither and thither, scattering his sticks. Instantlywhere they fell there appeared a gigantic army. Nobody could countthe number of soldiers in it cavalry, foot soldiers, yes, and guns,and all the guns new and bright, and the men in the finest uniformsthat ever were seen.In the morning, as the Tzar woke and looked from the windows of thepalace, he found himself surrounded by troops upon troops of soldiers,and generals in cocked hats bowing in the courtyard and taking ordersfrom the Fool of the World, who sat there joking with his companionsin the flying ship. Now it was the Tzar's turn to be afraid. Asquickly as he could he sent his servants to the Fool with presents ofrich jewels and fine clothes, invited him to come to the palace, andbegged him to marry the Princess.The Fool of the World put on the fine clothes, and stood there ashandsome a young man as a princess could wish for a husband. Hepresented himself before the Tzar, fell in love with the Princess andshe with him, married her the same day, received with her a richdowry, and became so clever that all the court repeated everything hesaid. The Tzar and the Tzaritza liked him very much, and as for thePrincess, she loved him to distraction.