Once upon a time there was a boy who had served a man in the northernmountains for a long time. This man was a master at ale brewing. It was souncommonly good, the like of it was not to be found. So, when the boy wasto leave his place and the man was to pay him the wages he had earned, hewould take no other pay than a keg of Yule ale. Well, he got it and setoff with it, and he carried it both far and long, but the longer hecarried the keg the heavier it got, and so he began to look about to seeif anyone were coming with whom he might have drink, that the ale mightlessen and the keg lighten. And after a long, long time, he met an old manwith a big beard."Good day," said the man."Good day to you," said the boy."Where are you going?" asked the man."I'm looking for someone to drink with me, and lighten my keg," saidthe boy."Can't you drink with me as well as with anyone else?" said the man. "Ihave traveled both far and wide, and I am both tired and thirsty.""Well, why shouldn't I?" said the boy. "But tell me, where are youfrom, and what sort of man are you?""I am the Lord, and come from Heaven," said the man."I will not drink with you," said the boy, "for you make suchdistinction between persons here on earth, and you divide rights sounevenly that some get so rich and some so poor. No, I will not drink withyou!" And having said this he trudged off again with his keg.When he had gone a bit farther the keg grew too heavy again. He thoughthe could not carry it any longer unless someone came with whom he mightdrink, and so lessen the ale in the keg. Yes, he met an ugly, scrawny manwho came rushing along."Good day," said the man."Good day to you," said the boy."Where are you going?" asked the man."Oh, I'm looking for someone to drink with, and lighten my keg," saidthe boy."Can't you drink with me as well as with anyone else?" said the man. "Ihave traveled both far and wide, and I am tired and thirsty.""Well, why not?" said the boy. "But who are you, and where do you comefrom?""Who am I? I am the Devil, and I come from Hell, that's where I comefrom," said the man."No!" said the boy. "You only torment and plague poor folk, and ifthere is any unhappiness astir, they always say it is your fault. I willnot drink with you."So he went far and farther than far again with his ale keg on his back,until he thought it grew so heavy there was no carrying it any farther. Hebegan to look around again if anyone were coming with whom he could drinkand lighten his keg. So after a long, long time, another man came, and hewas so dried up and scrawny it was a wonder that his bones hungtogether."Good day," said the man."Good day to you," said the boy."Where are you going?" asked the man."Oh, I was only looking about to see if I could find someone to drinkwith, that my keg might be lightened a little, it is so heavy tocarry.""Can't you drink with me as well as with anyone else?" said theman."Yes, why not?" said the boy. "But what sort of man are you?""They call me Death," said the man."I will gladly drink with you.," said the boy. And as he said this heput down his keg and began to tap the ale into a bowl. "You are a goodman, for you treat all alike, both rich and poor."So he drank to his health, and Death drank to his health, and Deathsaid he had never tasted such drink, and as the boy was fond of him, theydrank bowl after bowl until the ale was lessened, and the keg grewlight.At last Death said, "I have never known drink which tasted better, ordid me so much good as this ale that you have given me, and I scarce knowwhat to give you in return." But after he had thought awhile, he said thekeg should never get empty, however much they drank out of it, and the alethat was in it should become a healing drink, by which the boy could makethe sick whole again better than any doctor. And he also said that whenthe boy came into a sick man's room, Death would always be there, and showhimself to him, and it should be to him a sure sign if he saw Death at thefoot of the bed that he could cure the sick with a draft from the keg. butif he sat by the pillow, there was no healing nor medicine, for then thesick person belonged to Death.Well, the boy soon grew famous, and was summoned far and near, and hehelped many to health again who had been given up. When he came in and sawhow Death sat by a sick man's bed, he foretold either life or death, andhis foretelling was never wrong. He became both a rich and powerful man,and at last he was summoned to a king's daughter far, far away in theworld. She was so dangerously ill that no doctor thought he could do herany good, and so they promised him all that he might ask for if he wouldonly save her life.Now, when he came into the princess's room, there sat Death at herpillow. but as he sat he dozed and nodded, and while he did this she feltbetter."Now, life or death is at stake," said the doctor. "and I fear, fromwhat I see, there is no hope."But they said he must save her, if it cost land and realm. So he lookedat Death, and while he sat there and dozed again, he made a sign to theservants to turn the bed around so quickly that Death was left sitting atthe foot, and at the very moment they turned the bed, the doctor gave herthe draft, and her life was spared."Now you have cheated me," said Death, "and we are quits.""I was forced to do it," said the doctor, "unless I wished to lose landand realm.""That shall not help you much," said Death. "Your time is up, for nowyou belong to me.""Well," said the boy, "what must be must be. But you'll let me havetime to read the Lord's Prayer first?"Yes, he might have leave to do that. But he took very good care not toread the Lord's Prayer. He read everything else, but the Lord's Prayernever crossed his lips, and at last he thought he had cheated Death forgood and all.But when Death thought he had really waited too long, he went to theboy's house one night, and hung up a large tablet with the Lord's Prayerpainted on it over against his bed. So when the boy woke in the morning hebegan to read the tablet, and did not quite see what he was doing until hecame to Amen. But then it was just too late, and Death had him.