Once upon a time there lived a mother with three daughters, whose duty itwas to guard the cabbage patch in front of the cottage in which theylived. One day they were all sitting in the sun, spinning, when they saw abull in the cabbage patch. "Take your distaff and run, child, run!" saidthe mother to the eldest daughter. So the girl took her distaff and ran.The bull ran and she ran, and she ran and the bull ran, until they came toa great house standing on the edge of a wood.There the bull gave her a large bunch of keys, and told her that she couldgo anywhere in the house she liked except one room. He showed her the keyto this room, and told her that she must not unlock the door to which itbelonged. Then the bull went away and left her. The girl took the keys androamed from one beautiful room to another, until she had seen all exceptthe forbidden room. This she wanted to see more than she had any of theothers. At last her curiosity became so great that she opened the door andwent inside. What was her horror to discover that the room was full ofheadless bodies hung on all sides. Quickly she locked the door and randownstairs. But she had some blood on the key, on her hand, and on hershoes.As she was trying the best she knew how to get the blood off, along came abig black cat, which said to her, "Mew, mew, mew! Give me a dish of breadand milk, and I will tell you how to get the blood off your shoes.""Go away, you old black thing! I am not going to bother with you."So the cat went away, and pretty soon the bull came. "Let me see yourkeys!" said he. "How came the blood on this one?" Then he asked to see herhands and her shoes. When he saw blood on them too, he knew that she haddisobeyed him. so, as he had done with all the others who had disobeyedhim, he cut her head off and hung her body up with the others in theforbidden room.The next day, when the mother and her two remaining daughters again satspinning in the sun, they again saw the bull in the cabbage patch. Themother sent the second daughter just as she had sent the first, andexactly the same things happened to her.The third day the mother and the youngest daughter sat spinning in thesun, when the mother looked up and saw the bull a third time in thecabbage patch. "Take your distaff and run, child, run!" cried the mother.So the youngest daughter ran, and the bull ran. The bull ran and she ranuntil they came to the great house on the edge of the wood. There the bullgave her a bunch of keys, and told her that she might open every door inthe house except the one whose key he showed her. Then the bull went away.The youngest daughter did just as her sisters had done, and went into allthe rooms except the forbidden one. She kept wondering what could be inthere, until her curiosity became so great that she unlocked the door andwent in. She, too, was so horrified that she quickly shut the door and randownstairs, but with the tell tale blood on the key, on her hand, and onher shoes.To her came the big black cat, who said, "Mew, mew, mew! Give me a dish ofbread and milk, and I will tell you how to get the blood off your shoes."Instead of telling the cat to go away, as her sisters had done, she wentand got some bread and milk for him. When the cat had finished eating, hesaid, "If you will go into the attic, you will find there a sickle. Takeit, rub it on the key, on your hand, and on your shoes, while you say,'Blood, be gone! Blood, be gone!"'The girl went to the attic, found the sickle, and did with it as the cathad told her to do, saying, "Blood, be gone! blood, be gone!" Even as shespoke the last word, the blood stains disappeared.Then the girl went downstairs, where she found the bull waiting for her."Let me see your keys," he said, "and your hands and your shoes!"When he saw that she had no blood stains upon her, he suddenly changedfrom a bull into a beautiful prince. "I was bewitched," he said, "by agirl who loved me, but whom I wouldn't marry because I didn't love her. Ikilled many a girl when I was a bull. but now we will have the bodiestaken care of, and then we will be married."So they buried the bodies, and then were married and lived happily everafter.