On the last house in a little village the storks had built a nest,and the mother stork sat in it with her four young ones, who stretchedout their necks and pointed their black beaks, which had not yetturned red like those of the parent birds. A little way off, on theedge of the roof, stood the father stork, quite upright and stiff. notliking to be quite idle, he drew up one leg, and stood on the other,so still that it seemed almost as if he were carved in wood. "Itmust look very grand," thought he, "for my wife to have a sentryguarding her nest. They do not know that I am her husband. they willthink I have been commanded to stand here, which is quitearistocratic." and so he continued standing on one leg.In the street below were a number of children at play, and whenthey caught sight of the storks, one of the boldest amongst the boysbegan to sing a song about them, and very soon he was joined by therest. These are the words of the song, but each only sang what hecould remember of them in his own way."Stork, stork, fly away,Stand not on one leg, I pray,See your wife is in her nest,With her little ones at rest.They will hang one,And fry another.They will shoot a third,And roast his brother.""Just hear what those boys are singing," said the young storks."they say we shall be hanged and roasted.""Never mind what they say. you need not listen," said themother. "They can do no harm."But the boys went on singing and pointing at the storks, andmocking at them, excepting one of the boys whose name was Peter. hesaid it was a shame to make fun of animals, and would not join withthem at all. The mother stork comforted her young ones, and toldthem not to mind. "See," she said, "How quiet your father stands,although he is only on one leg.""But we are very much frightened," said the young storks, and theydrew back their heads into the nests.The next day when the children were playing together, and sawthe storks, they sang the song again "They will hang one,And roast another.""Shall we be hanged and roasted?" asked the young storks."No, certainly not," said the mother. "I will teach you to fly,and when you have learnt, we will fly into the meadows, and pay avisit to the frogs, who will bow themselves to us in the water, andcry 'Croak, croak,' and then we shall eat them up. that will be fun.""And what next?" asked the young storks."Then," replied the mother, "all the storks in the country willassemble together, and go through their autumn manoeuvres, so thatit is very important for every one to know how to fly properly. Ifthey do not, the general will thrust them through with his beak, andkill them. Therefore you must take pains and learn, so as to beready when the drilling begins.""Then we may be killed after all, as the boys say. and hark!they are singing again.""Listen to me, and not to them," said the mother stork. "After thegreat review is over, we shall fly away to warm countries far fromhence, where there are mountains and forests. To Egypt, where we shallsee three cornered houses built of stone, with pointed tops that reachnearly to the clouds. They are called Pyramids, and are older than astork could imagine. and in that country, there is a river thatoverflows its banks, and then goes back, leaving nothing but mire.there we can walk about, and eat frogs in abundance.""Oh, o h!" cried the young storks."Yes, it is a delightful place. there is nothing to do all daylong but eat, and while we are so well off out there, in thiscountry there will not be a single green leaf on the trees, and theweather will be so cold that the clouds will freeze, and fall on theearth in little white rags." The stork meant snow, but she could notexplain it in any other way."Will the naughty boys freeze and fall in pieces?" asked the youngstorks."No, they will not freeze and fall into pieces," said themother, "but they will be very cold, and be obliged to sit all dayin a dark, gloomy room, while we shall be flying about in foreignlands, where there are blooming flowers and warm sunshine."Time passed on, and the young storks grew so large that they couldstand upright in the nest and look about them. The father broughtthem, every day, beautiful frogs, little snakes, and all kinds ofstork dainties that he could find. And then, how funny it was to seethe tricks he would perform to amuse them. He would lay his head quiteround over his tail, and clatter with his beak, as if it had been arattle. and then he would tell them stories all about the marshesand fens."Come," said the mother one day, "Now you must learn to fly."And all the four young ones were obliged to come out on the top of theroof. Oh, how they tottered at first, and were obliged to balancethemselves with their wings, or they would have fallen to the groundbelow."Look at me," said the mother, "you must hold your heads in thisway, and place your feet so. Once, twice, once, twice that is it. Nowyou will be able to take care of yourselves in the world."Then she flew a little distance from them, and the young ones madea spring to follow her. but down they fell plump, for their bodieswere still too heavy."I don't want to fly," said one of the young storks, creeping backinto the nest. "I don't care about going to warm countries.""Would you like to stay here and freeze when the winter comes?"said the mother, "or till the boys comes to hang you, or to roastyou? Well then, I'll call them.""Oh no, no," said the young stork, jumping out on the roof withthe others. and now they were all attentive, and by the third daycould fly a little. Then they began to fancy they could soar, sothey tried to do so, resting on their wings, but they soon foundthemselves falling, and had to flap their wings as quickly aspossible. The boys came again in the street singing their song: "Stork, stork, fly away.""Shall we fly down, and pick their eyes out?" asked the youngstorks."No. leave them alone," said the mother. "Listen to me. that ismuch more important. Now then. One two three. Now to the right.One two three. Now to the left, round the chimney. There now, that wasvery good. That last flap of the wings was so easy and graceful,that I shall give you permission to fly with me to morrow to themarshes. There will be a number of very superior storks there withtheir families, and I expect you to show them that my children are thebest brought up of any who may be present. You must strut aboutproudly it will look well and make you respected.""But may we not punish those naughty boys?" asked the youngstorks."No. let them scream away as much as they like. You can fly fromthem now up high amid the clouds, and will be in the land of thepyramids when they are freezing, and have not a green leaf on thetrees or an apple to eat.""We will revenge ourselves," whispered the young storks to eachother, as they again joined the exercising.Of all the boys in the street who sang the mocking song aboutthe storks, not one was so determined to go on with it as he who firstbegan it. Yet he was a little fellow not more than six years old. Tothe young storks he appeared at least a hundred, for he was so muchbigger than their father and mother. To be sure, storks cannot beexpected to know how old children and grown up people are. So theydetermined to have their revenge on this boy, because he began thesong first and would keep on with it. The young storks were veryangry, and grew worse as they grew older. so at last their motherwas obliged to promise that they should be revenged, but not until theday of their departure."We must see first, how you acquit yourselves at the grandreview," said she. "If you get on badly there, the general will thrusthis beak through you, and you will be killed, as the boys said, thoughnot exactly in the same manner. So we must wait and see.""You shall see," said the young birds, and then they took suchpains and practised so well every day, that at last it was quite apleasure to see them fly so lightly and prettily. As soon as theautumn arrived, all the storks began to assemble together beforetaking their departure for warm countries during the winter. Thenthe review commenced. They flew over forests and villages to show whatthey could do, for they had a long journey before them. The youngstorks performed their part so well that they received a mark ofhonor, with frogs and snakes as a present. These presents were thebest part of the affair, for they could eat the frogs and snakes,which they very quickly did."Now let us have our revenge," they cried."Yes, certainly," cried the mother stork. "I have thought upon thebest way to be revenged. I know the pond in which all the littlechildren lie, waiting till the storks come to take them to theirparents. The prettiest little babies lie there dreaming more sweetlythan they will ever dream in the time to come. All parents are glad tohave a little child, and children are so pleased with a little brotheror sister. Now we will fly to the pond and fetch a little baby foreach of the children who did not sing that naughty song to make gameof the storks.""But the naughty boy, who began the song first, what shall we doto him?" cried the young storks."There lies in the pond a little dead baby who has dreameditself to death," said the mother. "We will take it to the naughtyboy, and he will cry because we have brought him a little deadbrother. But you have not forgotten the good boy who said it was ashame to laugh at animals: we will take him a little brother andsister too, because he was good. He is called Peter, and you shall allbe called Peter in future."So they all did what their mother had arranged, and from that day,even till now, all the storks have been called Peter.