Once upon a time there lived an emperor whose name was Trojan, and hehad ears like a goat. Every morning, when he was shaved, he asked if theman saw anything odd about him, and as each fresh barber always repliedthat the emperor had goat's ears, he was at once ordered to be put todeath.Now after this state of things had lasted a good while, there was hardlya barber left in the town that could shave the emperor, and it cameto be the turn of the Master of the Company of Barbers to go up to thepalace. But, unluckily, at the very moment that he should have set out,the master fell suddenly ill, and told one of his apprentices that hemust go in his stead.When the youth was taken to the emperor's bedroom, he was asked why hehad come and not his master. The young man replied that the master wasill, and there was no one but himself who could be trusted with thehonour. The emperor was satisfied with the answer, and sat down, and leta sheet of fine linen be put round him. Directly the young barber beganhis work, he, like the rest, remarked the goat's ears of the emperor,but when he had finished and the emperor asked his usual question asto whether the youth had noticed anything odd about him, the young manreplied calmly, 'No, nothing at all.' This pleased the emperor so muchthat he gave him twelve ducats, and said, 'Henceforth you shall comeevery day to shave me.'So when the apprentice returned home, and the master inquired how he hadgot on with the emperor, the young man answered, 'Oh, very well, andhe says I am to shave him every day, and he has given me these twelveducats'. but he said nothing about the goat's ears of the emperor.From this time the apprentice went regularly up to the palace, receivingeach morning twelve ducats in payment. But after a while, his secret,which he had carefully kept, burnt within him, and he longed to tell itto somebody. His master saw there was something on his mind, and askedwhat it was. The youth replied that he had been tormenting himselffor some months, and should never feel easy until some one shared hissecret.'Well, trust me,' said the master, 'I will keep it to myself. or, if youdo not like to do that, confess it to your pastor, or go into some fieldoutside the town and dig a hole, and, after you have dug it, kneel downand whisper your secret three times into the hole. Then put back theearth and come away.'The apprentice thought that this seemed the best plan, and that veryafternoon went to a meadow outside the town, dug a deep hole, then kneltand whispered to it three times over, 'The Emperor Trojan has goat'sears.' And as he said so a great burden seemed to roll off him, and heshovelled the earth carefully back and ran lightly home.Weeks passed away, and there sprang up in the hole an elder tree whichhad three stems, all as straight as poplars. Some shepherds, tendingtheir flocks near by, noticed the tree growing there, and one of themcut down a stem to make flutes of. but, directly he began to play, theflute would do nothing but sing: 'The Emperor Trojan has goat's ears.'Of course, it was not long before the whole town knew of this wonderfulflute and what it said. and, at last, the news reached the emperor inhis palace. He instantly sent for the apprentice and said to him:'What have you been saying about me to all my people?'The culprit tried to defend himself by saying that he had never toldanyone what he had noticed. but the emperor, instead of listening, onlydrew his sword from its sheath, which so frightened the poor fellowthat he confessed exactly what he had done, and how he had whispered thetruth three times to the earth, and how in that very place an elder treehad sprung up, and flutes had been cut from it, which would only repeatthe words he had said. Then the emperor commanded his coach to be madeready, and he took the youth with him, and they drove to the spot, forhe wished to see for himself whether the young man's confession wastrue. but when they reached the place only one stem was left. So theemperor desired his attendants to cut him a flute from the remainingstem, and, when it was ready, he ordered his chamberlain to play on it.But no tune could the chamberlain play, though he was the best fluteplayer about the court nothing came but the words, 'The Emperor Trojanhas goat's ears.' Then the emperor knew that even the earth gave up itssecrets, and he granted the young man his life, but he never allowed himto be his barber any more.(Volksmarchen der Serben.)