There was once a man who went into the forest to gather wood, and saw asnake crushed under a large stone. He raised the stone a little with thehandle of his axe, and the snake crawled out.When it was at liberty, it said to the man, "I am going to eatyou."The man answered, "Softly. First let us hear the judgment of someone,and if I am condemned, then you shall eat me."The first one they met was a horse as thin as a stick, tied to an oaktree. He had eaten the leaves as far as he could reach, for he wasfamished.The snake said to him, "Is it right for me to eat this man who hassaved my life?"The nag answered, "More than right. Just look at me! I was one of thefinest horses. I have carried my master so many years, and what have Igained? Now that I am so badly off that I can no longer work they havetied me to this oak, and after I have eaten these few leaves I shall dieof hunger. Eat the man, then. For he who does good is ill rewarded, and hewho does evil must be well rewarded. Eat him, for you will be doing a goodday's work."They afterwards happened to find a mulberry tree, all holes, for it waseaten by old age. And the snake asked it if it was right to eat the manwho had saved its life."Yes," the tree answered at once, "for I have given my master so manyleaves that he has raised from them the finest silkworms in the world. Nowthat I can no longer stand upright, he has said that he is going to throwme into the fire. Eat him, then, for you will do well."Afterwards they met the fox. The man took her aside and begged her topronounce in his favor.The fox said, "The better to render judgment I must see just how thematter has happened."They all returned to the spot and arranged matters as they were atfirst. But as soon as the man saw the snake under the stone he cried out,"Where you are, there I will leave you."And there the snake remained.The fox wished in payment a bag of hens, and the man promised them toher for the next morning. The fox went there in the morning, and when theman saw her he put some dogs in the bag, and told the fox not to eat thehens close by, for fear the mistress of the house would hear it. So thefox did not open the bag until she had reached a distant valley. Then thedogs came out and ate her.And so it is in the world. For who does good is ill rewarded, and whodoes evil is well rewarded.