"Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who wasthe man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped fromyou in consequence of his swiftness, and outstripped the Fenians ofEire, and why is this proverb used, 'As Roc came to the house ofFionn'?""I will tell you that," said Fionn. "One day the chief of the Feniansand I went to Teamhair Luachra, and we took nothing in the chase thatsame day but one fawn. When it had been cooked it was fetched to me forthe purpose of dividing it. I gave a portion of it to each of the Fenianchiefs, and there remained none for my own share but a haunch bone.Gobha Gaoithe, son of Ronan, presented himself, and requested me togive him the haunch. I accordingly gave it to him. He then declared thatI gave him that portion on account of his swiftness of foot: and he wentout on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte,son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch backagain to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. We had notbeen long so when we saw a huge, obnoxious, massy boned, black,detestable giant, having only one eye, one arm, and one leg, hop forwardtowards us. He saluted us. I returned the salutation, and asked himwhence he came. 'I am come by the powers of the agility of my arm andleg,' responded he, 'having heard there is not one man in the world moreliberal in bestowing gifts than you, O Fionn. therefore, I am come tosolicit wealth and valuable gifts from you.' I replied that were all thewealth of the world mine I would give him neither little nor much. Hethen declared 'they were all liars who asserted that I never gave arefusal to any person.' I replied that if he were a man I would not givehim a refusal. 'Well, then,' said the giant, 'let me have that haunchyou have in your hand, and I will say good bye to the Fenians, providedthat you allow me the length of the haunch as a distance, and that I amnot seized upon until I make my first hop.' Upon hearing this I gave thehaunch into the giant's hand, and he hopped over the lofty stockades ofthe town. he then made use of the utmost swiftness of his one leg tooutstrip all the rest of the Fenians. When the Fenian chiefs saw that,they started in pursuit of the giant, while I and the band of minstrelsof the town went to the top of the dun to watch their proceedings. WhenI saw that the giant had outstripped them a considerable distance, I puton my running habiliments, and, taking no weapon but Mac an Loin in myhand, I started after the others. I overtook the hindmost division onSliabh an Righ, the middle (next) division at Limerick, and the chiefsof the Fenians at Ath Bo, which is called Ath Luain (Athlone), and thosefirst in the pursuit at Rinn an Ruaigh, to the right hand side ofCruachan of Connacht, where he (the giant) was distant less than ajavelin's cast from me. The giant passed on before me and crossed EasRoe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting hisfoot. I leaped over it after him. He then directed his course towardsthe estuary of Binn Edair, keeping the circuit of Eire to his righthand. The giant leaped over the estuary, and it was a leap similar toflight over the sea. I sprang after him, and having caught him by thesmall of the back, laid him prostrate on the earth. 'You have dealtunjustly by me, O Fionn,' cried the giant. 'for it was not with you Iarranged the combat, but with the Fenians.' I replied that the Fenianswere not perfect, except I myself were with them. We had not remainedlong thus when Liagan Luaimneach, from Luachar Deaghaidh, came to us. Hewas followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of theFenians. Each of them couched his javelin, intending to drive it throughthe giant and kill him in my arms, but I protected him from theirattacks. Soon after this the main body of the Fenians arrived. theyenquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not beenslain. 'That is bad counsel,' said the giant, 'for a better man than Iam would be slain in my eric.' We bound the giant strongly on thatoccasion. and soon after Bran Beag O'Buadhchan came to invite me to afeast, and all the Fenians of Eire, who had been present, accompaniedhim to his house. The banqueting hall had been prepared for ourreception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of thehouse, and was there placed in the sight of all present. They asked himwho he was. 'Roc, son of Diocan, is my name,' replied he, 'that is, I amson to the Legislator of Aengus of the Brugh in the south. My betrothedpoured a current of surprising affection and a torrent of deep love uponSgiath Breac, son of Dathcaoin yonder, who is your foster son, O Fionn.it hurt my feelings severely to hear her boast of the swiftness andbravery of her lover in particular, and of the Fenians in general, and Ideclared that I would challenge him and all the Fenians of Eire to run arace with me. but she sneered at me. I then went to my beloved friend,Aengus of the Brugh, to bemoan my fate. and he metamorphosed me thus,and bestowed on me the swiftness of a druidical wind, as you have seen.This is my history for you. and you ought to be well satisfied with allthe hurt and injury you have inflicted upon me already.'"Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I releasedhim from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to thepresence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of hisprowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire,save only myself. So the two went forth together in friendly amity, andRoc, for the champion feat reported of him by Liagan Luaimneach,recovered the affection of his betrothed, and straightway took her towife. From that adventure, indeed, arose the proverb, 'As Roc came tothe House of Fionn,' and so that is the answer to your question, OConan," said Fionn."Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan. "it is withclear memory and sweet words you relate these things. Tell me now themeaning of the byword, 'The hospitality of Fionn in the house ofCuanna.'""I will tell you the truth concerning that, O Conan," said Fionn."Oisin, Caoilte, Mac Lughaidh, Diarmuid O'Duibhne, and myself happenedone day, above all other days, to be on the summit of Cairn Feargall. Wewere accompanied by our five hounds, namely, Bran, Sceoluing, Sear Dubh,Luath Luachar, and Anuaill. We had not long been there when we perceiveda rough, tall, huge giant approaching us. He carried an iron fork uponhis back, and a grunting hog was placed between the prongs of the fork.a young girl of mature age followed and forced the giant on his waybefore her. 'Let someone go forward and accost those people,' said I.Diarmuid O'Duibhne followed, but did not overtake them. The other threeand I started up, and followed Diarmuid and the giant. We overtookDiarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl. for a dark,gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that wecould not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away welooked around us, and discovered a light roofed, comfortable lookinghouse at the edge of the ford near at hand. We proceeded to the house,before which spread a lawn upon which were two fountains. At the brinkof one fountain lay a rude iron vessel, and a vessel of bronze at thebrink of the other. Those we met in the house were an aged, hoary headedman standing by the door jamb to the right hand, and a beautiful maidsitting before him. a rough, rude, huge giant before the fire busilycooking a hog. and an old man at the other side of the fire, having aniron grey head of hair and twelve eyes in his head, while the twelvesons (germs) of discord beamed in each eye. There was also in the housea ram with a white belly, a jet black head, dark green horns, and greenfeet. and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a darkash coloured garment. There were no persons in the house except these.The man at the door post welcomed us. and we five, having our fivehounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. 'Let submissivehomage be done to Fionn Mac Cumhaill and his people,' said the man atthe door post. 'My case is that of a man begging a request, butobtaining neither the smaller nor the greater part of it,' said thegiant. Nevertheless, he rose up and did respectful homage to us. After awhile I became suddenly thirsty, and no person present perceived it butCaoilte, who began to complain bitterly on that account. 'You have nocause to complain, Caoilte,' said the man of the door post, 'but only tostep outside and fetch a drink for Fionn from whichever of the fountainsyou please.' Caoilte did so, and fetched the bronze vessel brimful to meand gave me to drink. I took a drink from it, and the water tasted likehoney while I was drinking, but bitter as gall when I put the vesselfrom my lips. so that darting pains and symptoms of death seized me andagonising pangs from the poisonous draught. I could be but withdifficulty recognised. and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of mybeing in that condition was greater than that he had before given ventto on account of my thirst. The man at the door post desired Caoilte togo out and bring me a drink from the other fountain. Caoilte obeyed,and brought me the iron vessel brimful. I never underwent so muchhardship in battle or conflict as I then suffered while drinking, inconsequence of the bitterness of the draught. but as soon as I put thevessel from my lips I recovered my own colour and appearance, and thatgave joy and happiness to my people."The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked.'It is cooked,' replied the giant, 'and allow me to divide it.' 'Howwill you divide it?' said the man of the house. 'I will give onehindquarter to Fionn and his hounds. the other hindquarter to Fionn'sfour men. the forepart to myself. the chine and rump to the old man whosits at the opposite side of the fire and to the hag in yonder corner.and the giblets to you and the young woman who is opposite to you.' 'Ipledge my word,' said the man of the house, 'you have divided it veryfairly.' 'I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division isvery unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogetherforgotten.' And so saying, he immediately snatched the quarter that laybefore my four men, and carried it away into a corner, where he began todevour it. The four men instantly attacked the ram all at once withtheir swords, but though they laid on violently, it did not affect himin the least, and the blows fell away as from a stone or rock, so thatthey were forced to resume their seats. 'Upon my veracity, he is doomedfor evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamelysuffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it beforeyour faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes. and at the sametime going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him aviolent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on theground. and from that time we saw him no more. Soon after this the hagstarted up, and having thrown her ashy grey coverlet over my four men,metamorphosed them into four withered, drooping headed old men. When Isaw that I was seized with great fear and alarm. and when the man at thedoor post perceived this, he desired me to come over to him, place myhead on his bosom, and sleep. I did so. and the hag got up and took hercoverlet off my four men. and when I awoke I found them restored totheir own shape, and that was a great happiness to me. 'O Fionn,' askedthe man of the door post, 'do you feel surprised at the appearance andarrangements of this house?' I assured him that I never saw anythingwhich surprised me more. 'Well, then, I will explain the meaning of allthese things to you,' said the man. 'The giant carrying the grunting hogbetween the prongs of the iron fork, whom you first saw, is he who isyonder, and his name is SLOTH. She who is close to me is the young womanwho had been forcing him along, that is ENERGY. and ENERGY compels SLOTHforward with her. for ENERGY moves, in the twinkling of the eye, agreater distance than the foot can travel in a year. The old man of thebright eyes yonder signifies the WORLD. and he is more powerful thananyone, which has been proved by his rendering the ram powerless. Thatram which you saw signifies the CRIMES of the man. That hag there beyondis withering OLD AGE, and her clothing has withered your four men. Thetwo wells from which you drank the two draughts mean FALSEHOOD andTRUTH. for while telling a lie one finds it sweet, but it becomes bitterat the last. Cuanna from Innistuil is my own name. I do not reside here,but having conceived a wonderful love for you, O Fionn, on account ofyour superiority in wisdom and general celebrity, I therefore put thosethings into the way before you in order that I might see you. And thisstory shall be called, to the end of the world, the Hospitality ofCuanna's House to Fionn. Let you and your men come together, and do yefive sleep until morning.' Accordingly we did so, and when we awoke inthe morning we found ourselves on the summit of Cairn Feargaill, withour hounds and arms by us. So there is the meaning of the byword, 'Thehospitality of Fionn in the house of Cuanna,' O Conan," said Fionn.(_Translated from the Irish by Nicholas O'Kearney._)