Sicilianische Mahrchen.Once upon a time there lived a shoemaker who could get no work to do,and was so poor that he and his wife nearly died of hunger. At last hesaid to her, 'It is no use waiting on here I can find nothing. so Ishall go down to Mascalucia, and perhaps there I shall be more lucky.'So down he went to Mascalucia, and walked through the streets crying,'Who wants some shoes?' And very soon a window was pushed up, and awoman's head was thrust out of it.'Here are a pair for you to patch,' she said. And he sat down on herdoorstep and set about patching them.'How much do I owe you?' she asked when they were done.'A shilling.''Here is eighteen pence, and good luck to you.' And he went his way. Heturned into the next street and set up his cry again, and it was notlong before another window was pushed up and another head appeared.'Here are some shoes for you to patch.'And the shoemaker sat down on the doorstep and patched them.'How much do I owe you?' asked the woman when the shoes were finished.'A florin.''Here is a crown piece, and good luck to you.' And she shut the window.'Well,' thought the shoemaker, 'I have done finely. But I will not goback to my wife just yet, as, if I only go on at this rate, I shall soonhave enough money to buy a donkey.'Having made up his mind what was best to do, he stayed in the town a fewdays longer till he had four gold pieces safe in his purse. Then he wentto the market and for two of them he bought a good strong donkey, and,mounting on its back, he rode home to Catania. But as he entered a thickwood he saw in the distance a band of robbers who were coming quicklytowards him.'I am lost,' thought he. 'they are sure to take from me all the moneythat I have earned, and I shall be as poor as ever I was. What can Ido?' However, being a clever little man and full of spirit, he did notlose heart, but, taking five florins, he fastened them out of sightunder the donkey's thick mane. Then he rode on.Directly the robber came up to him they seized him exactly as he hadforetold and took away all his money.'Oh, dear friends!' he cried, wringing his hands, 'I am only a poorshoemaker, and have nothing but this donkey left in the world.'As he spoke the donkey gave himself a shake, and down fell the fiveflorins.'Where did that come from?' asked the robbers.'Ah,' replied the shoemaker, 'you have guessed my secret. The donkey isa golden donkey, and supplies me with all my money.''Sell him to us,' said the robbers. 'We will give you any price youlike.'The shoemaker at first declared that nothing would induce him to sellhim, but at last he agreed to hand him over to the robbers for fiftygold pieces. 'But listen to what I tell you,' said he. 'You must eachtake it in turn to own him for a night and a day, or else you will allbe fighting over the money.'With these words they parted, the robbers driving the donkey to theircave in the forest and the shoemaker returning home, very pleased withthe success of his trick. He just stopped on the way to pick up a gooddinner, and the next day spent most of his gains in buying a smallvineyard.Meanwhile the robbers had arrived at the cave where they lived, and thecaptain, calling them all round him, announced that it as his right tohave the donkey for the first night. His companions agreed, and then hetold his wife to put a mattress in the stable. She asked if he had goneout of his mind, but he answered crossly, 'What is that to you? Do asyou are bid, and to morrow I will bring you some treasures.'Very early the captain awoke and searched the stable, but could findnothing, and guessed that Master Joseph had been making fun of them.'Well,' he said to himself, 'if I have been taken in, the others shallnot come off any better.'So, when one of his men arrived and asked him eagerly how much money hehad got, he answered gaily, 'Oh, comrade, if you only knew! But I shallsay nothing about it till everyone has had his turn!'One after another they all took the donkey, but no money was forthcomingfor anybody. At length, when all the band had been tricked, they held acouncil, and resolved to march to the shoemaker's house and punish himwell for his cunning. Just as before, the shoemaker saw them a long wayoff, and began to think how he could outwit them again. When he had hitupon a plan he called his wife, and said to her, 'Take a bladder andfill it with blood, and bind it round your neck. When the robbers comeand demand the money they gave me for the donkey I shall shout to youand tell you to get it quickly. You must argue with me, and decline toobey me, and then I shall plunge my knife into the bladder, and you mustfall to the ground as if you were dead. There you must lie till I playon my guitar. then get up and begin to dance.'The wife made haste to do as she was bid, and there was no time to lose,for the robbers were drawing very near the house. They entered with agreat noise, and overwhelmed the shoemaker with reproaches for havingdeceived them about the donkey.'The poor beast must have lost its power owing to the change ofmasters,' said he. 'but we will not quarrel about it. You shall haveback the fifty gold pieces that you gave for him. 'Aite,' he cried to hiswife, 'go quickly to the chest upstairs, and bring down the money forthese gentlemen.''Wait a little,' answered she. 'I must first bake this fish. It will bespoilt if I leave it now.''Go this instant, as you are bid,' shouted the shoemaker, stamping as ifhe was in a great passion. but, as she did not stir, he drew his knife,and stabbed her in the neck. The blood spurted out freely, and she fellto the ground as if she was dead.'What have you done?' asked the robbers, looking at him in dismay. 'Thepoor woman was doing nothing.''Perhaps I was hasty, but it is easily set right,' replied theshoemaker, taking down his guitar and beginning to play. Hardly had hestruck the first notes than his wife sat up. then got on her feet anddanced.The robbers stared with open mouths, and at last they said, 'MasterJoseph, you may keep the fifty gold pieces. But tell us what you willtake for your guitar, for you must sell it to us?''Oh, that is impossible!' replied the shoemaker, 'for every time I havea quarrel with my wife I just strike her dead, and so give vent to myanger. This has become such a habit with me that I don't think I couldbreak myself of it. and, of course, if I got rid of the guitar I couldnever bring her back to life again.'However, the robbers would not listen to him, and at last he consentedto take forty gold pieces for the guitar.Then they all returned to their cave in the forest, delighted with theirnew purchase, and longing for a chance of trying its powers. But thecaptain declared that the first trial belonged to him, and after thatthe others might have their turn.That evening he called to his wife and said, 'What have you got forsupper?''Macaroni,' answered she.'Why have you not boiled a fish?' he cried, and stabber in the neck sothat she fell dead. The captain, who was not in the least angry, seizedthe guitar and began to play. but, let him play as loud as he would, thedead woman never stirred. 'Oh, lying shoemaker! Oh, abominable knave!Twice has he got the better of me. But I will pay him out!'So he raged and swore, but it did him no good. The fact remained that hehad killed his wife and could not bring her back again.The next morning came one of the robbers to fetch the guitar, and tohear what had happened.'Well, how have you got on?''Oh, splendidly! I stabbed my wife, and then began to play, and now sheis as well as ever.''Did you really? Then this evening I will try for myself.'Of course the same thing happened over again, till all the wives hadbeen killed secretly, and when there were no more left they whispered toeach other the dreadful tale, and swore to be avenged on the shoemaker.The band lost no time in setting out for his house, and, as before,the shoemaker saw them coming from afar. He called to his wife, who waswashing in the kitchen: 'Listen, Aita: when the robbers come and ask forme say I have gone to the vineyard. Then tell the dog to call me, andchase him from the house.'When he had given these directions he ran out of the back door and hidbehind a barrel. A few minutes later the robbers arrived, and calledloudly for the shoemaker.'Alas! good gentlemen, he is up in the vineyard, but I will send thedog after him at once. Here! now quickly to the vineyard, and tell yourmaster some gentlemen are here who wish to speak to him. Go as fast asyou can.' And she opened the door and let the dog out.'You can really trust the dog to call your husband?' asked the robbers.'Dear me, yes! He understands everything, and will always carry anymessage I give him.'By and bye the shoemaker came in and said, 'Good morning, gentlemen. thedog tells me you wish to speak to me.''Yes, we do,' replied the robber. 'we have come to speak to you aboutthat guitar. It is your fault that we have murdered all our wives. and,though we played as you told us, none of them ever came back to life.''You could not have played properly,' said the shoemaker. 'It was yourown fault.''Well, we will forget all about it,' answered the robbers, 'if you willonly sell us your dog.''Oh, that is impossible! I should never get on without him.'But the robbers offered him forty gold pieces, and at last he agreed tolet them have the dog.So they departed, taking the dog with them, and when they got back totheir cave the captain declared that it was his right to have the firsttrial.He then called his daughter, and said to her, 'I am going to the inn. ifanybody wants me, loose the dog, and send him to call me.'About an hour after some one arrived on business, and the girl untiedthe dog and said, 'Go to the inn and call my father!' The dog boundedoff, but ran straight to the shoemaker.When the robber got home and found no dog he thought 'He must have goneback to his old master,' and, though night had already fallen, he wentoff after him.'Master Joseph, is the dog here?' asked he.'Ah! yes, the poor beast is so fond of me! You must give him time to getaccustomed to new ways.'So the captain brought the dog back, and the following morning handedhim over to another of the band, just saying that the animal reallycould do what the shoemaker had said.The second robber carefully kept his own counsel, and fetched the dogsecretly back from the shoemaker, and so on through the whole band. Atlength, when everybody had suffered, they met and told the whole story,and next day they all marched off in fury to the man who had made gameof them. After reproaching him with having deceived them, they tied himup in a sack, and told him they were going to throw him into the sea.The shoemaker lay quite still, and let them do as they would.They went on till they came to a church, and the robbers said, 'The sunis hot and the sack is heavy. let us leave it here and go in and rest.'So they put the sack down by the roadside, and went into the church.Now, on a hill near by there was a swineherd looking after a great herdof pigs and whistling merrily.When Master Joseph heard him he cried out as loud as he could, 'I won't.I won't, I say.''What won't you do?' asked the swineherd.'Oh,' replied the shoemaker. 'They want me to marry the king's daughter,and I won't do it.''How lucky you are!' sighed the swineherd. 'Now, if it were only me!''Oh, if that's all!' replied the cunning shoemaker, 'get you into thissack, and let me out.'Then the swineherd opened the sack and took the place of the shoemaker,who went gaily off, driving the pigs before him.When the robbers were rested they came out of the church, took up thesack, and carried it to the sea, where they threw it in, and it sankdirectly. As they came back they met the shoemaker, and stared at himwith open mouths.'Oh, if you only knew how many pigs live in the sea,' he cried. 'And thedeeper you go the more there are. I have just brought up these, and meanto return for some more.''There are still some left there?''Oh, more than I could count,' replied the shoemaker. 'I will show youwhat you must do.' Then he led the robbers back to the shore. 'Now,'said he, 'you must each of you tie a stone to your necks, so that youmay be sure to go deep enough, for I found the pigs that you saw verydeep down indeed.'Then the robbers all tied stones round their necks, and jumped in, andwere drowned, and Master Joseph drove his pigs home, and was a rich manto the end of his days.