The HitopadesaA certain booby after having devoured fish of every size and quality, at length is killed from his attempting a crab out of mere gluttony."How was that?" demanded Chitra Varna. and his minister related the following story:In the country of Malava there is a lake distinguished by the name of Padma Garbha, where lived an old booby, who, being deprived of his former abilities, stood and feigned to appear like one who was troubled in mind. in which situation being observed by a crab at a distance, the latter asked him why he stood there, and did not look for food."You know," replied the booby, "that fish is what I live upon. and I know for certain that fishermen are coming to catch them all. for, as I was looking about the skirts of the next village, I overheard the conversation of some water men upon that subject. so this being the case, I have lost my appetite with reflecting that, when our food is gone, death will soon follow."This being overheard by all the fish, they observed to one another that it was proper to look out for assistance whilst they had time. and, said they, "Let us ask the booby himself what is best to be done. for: One may better form a connection with an enemy who will render one assistance, than with a friend who would do one an injury. These two should rather be distinguished according to the good or injury they do to one. "Accordingly, the fish accosted the booby, and said, "Pray, master booby, tell us what means can be devised for our safety upon this occasion?""There is one way to be safe," replied the artful booby, and that is, going to another pond, whither I am willing to transport you."The fish, in the greatness of their fears, consented to this proposal, and their treacherous deliverer devoured them all one by one as he took them out of the water.At length, the crab asked him to take him also. and the booby, although he had never before had any inclination to taste one of his species, took him up with great marks of respect, and carried him ashore.When the crab seeing the ground covered with the bones of the fish which the booby had destroyed, cried to herself, "Alas, how unfortunate! I shall certainly be killed too, unless I can contrive some means of escaping. Let me try immediately what the occasion requires. They say:In times of danger it is proper to be alarmed until danger be near at hand. but when we perceive that danger is near, one should oppose it as if one were not afraid.When one attacked beholdeth no safety for himself, if he be a wise man, he will die fighting with his foe.It is also said, that:As out of battle death is certain, etc.The crab having come to this resolution, he seized the opportunity, when the booby stretched out his neck to devour him, to tear open his throat with the pincers of his claws.Wherefore I repeat: " A certain booby after having devoured fish of every size and quality, at length is killed from his attempting a crab out of mere gluttony. "