Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, atraveling monkey man, who earned his living by taking round a monkeyand showing off the animal's tricks.One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife tosend for the butcher the next morning.The wife was very bewildered and asked her husband:"Why do you wish me to send for the butcher?""It's no use taking that monkey round any longer, he's too old andforgets his tricks. I beat him with my stick all I know how, but hewon't dance properly. I must now sell him to the butcher and make whatmoney out of him I can. There is nothing else to be done."The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded forher husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, theman was determined to sell him to the butcher.Now the monkey was in the next room and overheard every word of theconversation. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he saidto himself:"Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Here I have served him faithfully foryears, and instead of allowing me to end my days comfortably and inpeace, he is going to let me be cut up by the butcher, and my poor bodyis to be roasted and stewed and eaten? Woe is me! What am I to do. Ah!a bright thought has struck me! There is, I know, a wild bear living inthe forest near by. I have often heard tell of his wisdom. Perhaps if Igo to him and tell him the strait I am in he will give me his counsel.I will go and try."There was no time to lose. The monkey slipped out of the house and ranas quickly as he could to the forest to find the boar. The boar was athome, and the monkey began his tale of woe at once."Good Mr. Boar, I have heard of your excellent wisdom. I am in greattrouble, you alone can help me. I have grown old in the service of mymaster, and because I cannot dance properly now he intends to sell meto the butcher. What do you advise me to do? I know how clever you are!"The boar was pleased at the flattery and determined to help the monkey.He thought for a little while and then said:"Hasn't your master a baby?""Oh, yes," said the monkey, "he has one infant son.""Doesn't it lie by the door in the morning when your mistress beginsthe work of the day? Well, I will come round early and when I see myopportunity I will seize the child and run off with it.""What then?" said the monkey."Why the mother will be in a tremendous scare, and before your masterand mistress know what to do, you must run after me and rescue thechild and take it home safely to its parents, and you will see thatwhen the butcher comes they won't have the heart to sell you."The monkey thanked the boar many times and then went home. He did notsleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow.His life depended on whether the boar's plan succeeded or not. He wasthe first up, waiting anxiously for what was to happen. It seemed tohim a very long time before his master's wife began to move about andopen the shutters to let in the light of day. Then all happened as theboar had planned. The mother placed her child near the porch as usualwhile she tidied up the house and got her breakfast ready.The child was crooning happily in the morning sunlight, dabbing on themats at the play of light and shadow. Suddenly there was a noise in theporch and a loud cry from the child. The mother ran out from thekitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearingthrough the gate with her child in its clutch. She flung out her handswith a loud cry of despair and rushed into the inner room where herhusband was still sleeping soundly.He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes, and crossly demanded what hiswife was making all that noise about. By the time that the man wasalive to what had happened, and they both got outside the gate, theboar had got well away, but they saw the monkey running after the thiefas hard as his legs would carry him.Both the man and wife were moved to admiration at the plucky conduct ofthe sagacious monkey, and their gratitude knew no bounds when thefaithful monkey brought the child safely back to their arms."There!" said the wife. "This is the animal you want to kill if themonkey hadn't been here we should have lost our child forever.""You are right, wife, for once," said the man as he carried the childinto the house. "You may send the butcher back when he comes, and nowgive us all a good breakfast and the monkey too."When the butcher arrived he was sent away with an order for some boar'smeat for the evening dinner, and the monkey was petted and lived therest of his days in peace, nor did his master ever strike him again.