There was once a very worthy king, whose daughter was the greatest beautythat could be seen far or near, but she was as proud as Lucifer, and noking or prince would she agree to marry. Her father was tired out at last,and invited every king and prince, and duke, and earl that he knew ordidn't know to come to his court to give her one trial more. They allcame, and next day after breakfast they stood in a row in the lawn, andthe princess walked along in the front of them to make her choice. One wasfat, and says she, "I won't have you, Beer barrel!" One was tall and thin,and to him she said, "I won't have you, Ramrod!" To a white faced man shesaid, "I won't have you, Pale Death!" and to a red cheeked man she said,"I won't have you, Cockscomb!"She stopped a little before the last of all, for he was a fine man in faceand form. She wanted to find some defect in him, but he had nothingremarkable but a ring of brown curling hair under his chin. She admiredhim a little, and then carried it off with, "I won't have you, Whiskers!"So all went away, and the king was so vexed he said to her, "Now to punishyour impedence , I'll give you to the first beggar man or singingsthronshuch (lazy thing) that calls." And, as sure as thehearth money, a fellow all over rags, and hair that came to his shoulders,and a bushy red beard all over his face, came next morning, and began tosing before the parlor window.When the song was over, the hall door was opened, the singer asked in, thepriest brought, and the princess married to Beardy. She roared and shebawled, but her father didn't mind her. "There," says he to thebridegroom," is five guineas for you. Take your wife out of my sight, andnever let me lay eyes on you or her again."Off he led her, and dismal enough she was. The only thing that gave herrelief was the tones of her husband's voice and his genteel manners."Whose wood is this?" said she, as they were going through one."It belongs to the king you called Whiskers yesterday." He gave her thesame answer about meadows and cornfields, and at last a fine city."Ah, what a fool I was!" said she to herself. "He was a fine man, and Imight have him for a husband." At last they were coming up to a poorcabin. "Why are you bringing me here?" says the poor lady."This was my house," said he, "and now it's yours." She began to cry, butshe was tired and hungry, and went in with him. Ovoch! There was neither atable laid out, nor a fire burning, and she was obliged to help herhusband to light it, and boil their dinner, and clean up the place after.and next day he made her put on a stuff gown and a cotton handkerchief.When she had her house redded up, and no business to keep her employed, hebrought home sallies (willows), peeled them, and showed her how tomake baskets. But the hard twigs bruised her delicate fingers, and shebegan to cry. Well, then he asked her to mend their clothes, but theneedle drew blood from her fingers, and she cried again.He couldn't bear to see her tears, so he bought a creel of earthenware,and sent her to the market to sell them. This was the hardest trial ofall, but she looked so handsome and sorrowful, and had such a nice airabout her, that all her pans, and jugs, and plates, and dishes were gonebefore noon, and the only mark of her old pride she showed was a slap shegave a buckeen across the face when he axed her to go in an' takeshare of a quart.Well, her husband was so glad, he sent her with another creel the nextday. but faith! her luck was after deserting her. A drunken huntsman cameup riding, and his beast got in among her ware, and made brishe(broken pieces) of every mother's son of 'em. She went home cryin', andher husband wasn't at all pleased. "I see," said he, "you're not fit forbusiness. Come along, I'll get you a kitchen maid's place in the palace. Iknow the cook."So the poor thing was obliged to stifle her pride once more. She was keptvery busy, and the footman and the butler would be very impudent aboutlooking for a kiss, but she let a screech out of her the first attempt wasmade, and the cook gave the fellow such a lambasting with the besom thathe made no second offer. She went home to her husband every night, and shecarried broken victuals wrapped in papers in her side pockets.A week after she got service there was great bustle in the kitchen. Theking was going to be married, but no one knew who the bride was to be.Well, in the evening the cook filled the princess's pockets with cold meatand puddings, and, says she, "Before you go, let us have a look at thegreat doings in the big parlor." So they came near the door to get a peep,and who should come out but the king himself, as handsome as you please,and no other but King Whiskers himself."Your handsome helper must pay for her peeping," said he to the cook, "anddance a jig with me." Whether she would or no, he held her hand andbrought her into the parlor. The fiddlers struck up, and away wenthim with her. But they hadn't danced two steps when the meatand the puddens flew out of her pockets. Everyone roared out, andshe flew to the door, crying piteously. But she was soon caught by theking, and taken into the back parlor. "Don't you know me, my darling?"said he. "I'm both King Whiskers, your husband the ballad singer, and thedrunken huntsman. Your father knew me well enough when he gave you to me,and all was to drive your pride out of you."Well, she didn't know how she was with fright, and shame, and joy. Lovewas uppermost anyhow, for she laid her head on her husband's breast andcried like a child. The maids of honor soon had her away and dressed heras fine as hands and pins could do it. and there were her mother andfather, too. and while the company were wondering what end of the handsomegirl and the king, he and his queen, who they didn't know in her fineclothes, and the other king and queen, came in, and such rejoicings andfine doings as there was, none of us will ever see, any way.