In a certain town there lived a judge who was married but had nochildren. One day he was standing lost in thought before his house, whenan old man passed by.'What is the matter, sir, said he, 'you look troubled?''Oh, leave me alone, my good man!''But what is it?' persisted the other.'Well, I am successful in my profession and a person of importance, butI care nothing for it all, as I have no children.'Then the old man said, 'Here are twelve apples. If your wife eats them,she will have twelve sons.'The judge thanked him joyfully as he took the apples, and went to seekhis wife. 'Eat these apples at once,' he cried, 'and you will havetwelve sons.'So she sat down and ate eleven of them, but just as she was in themiddle of the twelfth her sister came in, and she gave her the half thatwas left.The eleven sons came into the world, strong and handsome boys. but whenthe twelfth was born, there was only half of him.By and by they all grew into men, and one day they told their father itwas high time he found wives for them. 'I have a brother,' he answered,'who lives away in the East, and he has twelve daughters. go and marrythem.' So the twelve sons saddled their horses and rode for twelve days,till they met an old woman.'Good greeting to you, young men!' said she, 'we have waited long foryou, your uncle and I. The girls have become women, and are sought, inmarriage by many, but I knew you would come one day, and I have keptthem for you. Follow me into my house.'And the twelve brothers followed her gladly, and their father's brotherstood at the door, and gave them meat and drink. But at night, whenevery one was asleep, Halfman crept softly to his brothers, and said tothem, 'Listen, all of you! This man is no uncle of ours, but an ogre.''Nonsense. of course he is our uncle,' answered they.'Well, this very night you will see!' said Halfman. And he did not go tobed, but hid himself and watched.Now in a little while he saw the wife of the ogre steal into the roomon tiptoe and spread a red cloth over the brothers and then go and coverher daughters with a white cloth. After that she lay down and was soonsnoring loudly. When Halfman was quite sure she was sound asleep, hetook the red cloth from his brothers and put it on the girls, and laidtheir white cloth over his brothers. Next he drew their scarlet capsfrom their heads and exchanged them for the veils which the ogre'sdaughters were wearing. This was hardly done when he heard steps comingalong the floor, so he hid himself quickly in the folds of a curtain.There was only half of him!The ogress came slowly and gently along, stretching out her hands beforeher, so that she might not fall against anything unawares, for she hadonly a tiny lantern slung at her waist, which did not give much light.And when she reached the place where the sisters were lying, she stoopeddown and held a corner of the cloth up to the lantern. Yes! it certainlywas red! Still, to make sure that there was no mistake, she passed herhands lightly over their heads, and felt the caps that covered them.Then she was quite certain the brothers lay sleeping before her, andbegan to kill them one by one. And Halfman whispered to his brothers,'Get up and run for your lives, as the ogress is killing her daughters.'The brothers needed no second bidding, and in a moment were out of thehouse.By this time the ogress had slain all her daughters but one, who awokesuddenly and saw what had happened. 'Mother, what are you doing?' criedshe. 'Do you know that you have killed my sisters?''Oh, woe is me!' wailed the ogress. 'Halfman has outwitted me afterall!' And she turned to wreak vengeance on him, but he and his brotherswere far away.They rode all day till they got to the town where their real unclelived, and inquired the way to his house.'Why have you been so long in coming?' asked he, when they had foundhim.'Oh, dear uncle, we were very nearly not coming at all!' replied they.'We fell in with an ogress who took us home and would have killed us ifit had not been for Halfman. He knew what was in her mind and saved us,and here we are. Now give us each a daughter to wife, and let us returnwhence we came.''Take them!' said the uncle. 'the eldest for the eldest, the second forthe second, and so on to the youngest.'But the wife of Halfman was the prettiest of them all, and the otherbrothers were jealous and said to each other: 'What, is he who is onlyhalf a man to get the best? Let us put him to death and give his wife toour eldest brother!' And they waited for a chance.After they had all ridden, in company with their brides, for somedistance, they arrived at a brook, and one of them asked, 'Now, who willgo and fetch water from the brook?''Halfman is the youngest,' said the elder brother, 'he must go.'So Halfman got down and filled a skin with water, and they drew it up bya rope and drank. When they had done drinking, Halfman, who was standingin the middle of the stream, called out: 'Throw me the rope and draw meup, for I cannot get out alone.' And the brothers threw him a rope todraw him up the steep bank. but when he was half way up they cut therope, and he fell back into the stream. Then the brothers rode away asfast as they could, with his bride.Halfman sank down under the water from the force of the fall, butbefore he touched the bottom a fish came and said to him, 'Fear nothing,Halfman. I will help you.' And the fish guided him to a shallow place,so that he scrambled out. On the way it said to him, 'Do you understandwhat your brothers, whom you saved from death, have done to you?''Yes. but what am I to do?' asked Halfman.'Take one of my scales,' said the fish, 'and when you find yourself indanger, throw it in the fire. Then I will appear before you.''Thank you,' said Halfman, and went his way, while the fish swam back toits home.The country was strange to Halfman, and he wandered about withoutknowing where he was going, till he suddenly found the ogress standingbefore him. 'Ah, Halfman, have I got you at last? You killed mydaughters and helped your brothers to escape. What do you think I shalldo with you?''Whatever you like!' said Halfman.'Come into my house, then,' said the ogress, and he followed her.'Look here!' she called to her husband, 'I have got hold of Halfman. Iam going to roast him, so be quick and make up the fire!'So the ogre brought wood, and heaped it up till the flames roared up thechimney. Then he turned to his wife and said: 'It is all ready, let usput him on!''What is the hurry, my good ogre?' asked Halfman. 'You have me in yourpower, and I cannot escape. I am so thin now, I shall hardly make onemouthful. Better fatten me up. you will enjoy me much more.''That is a very sensible remark,' replied the ogre. 'but what fattensyou quickest?''Butter, meat, and red wine,' answered Halfman.'Very good. we will lock you into this room, and here you shall staytill you are ready for eating.'So Halfman was locked into the room, and the ogre and his wife broughthim his food. At the end of three months he said to his gaolers: 'Now Ihave got quite fat. take me out, and kill me.''Get out, then!' said the ogre.'But,' went on Halfman, 'you and your wife had better go to invite yourfriends to the feast, and your daughter can stay in the house and lookafter me!''Yes, that is a good idea,' answered they.'You had better bring the wood in here,' continued Halfman, 'and I willsplit it up small, so that there may be no delay in cooking me.'So the ogress gave Halfman a pile of wood and an axe, and then set outwith her husband, leaving Halfman and her daughter busy in the house.After he had chopped for a little while he called to the girl, 'Come andhelp me, or else I shan't have it all ready when your mother gets back.''All right,' said she, and held a billet of wood for him to chop.But he raised his axe and cut off her head, and ran away like the wind.By and by the ogre and his wife returned and found their daughterlying without her head, and they began to cry and sob, saying, 'This isHalfman's work, why did we listen to him?' But Halfman was far away.When he escaped from the house he ran on straight before him for sometime, looking for a safe shelter, as he knew that the ogre's legs weremuch longer than his, and that it was his only chance. At last he sawan iron tower which he climbed up. Soon the ogre appeared, looking rightand left lest his prey should be sheltering behind a rock or tree, buthe did not know Halfman was so near till he heard his voice calling,'Come up! come up! you will find me here!''But how can I come up?' said the ogre, 'I see no door, and I could notpossibly climb that tower.''Oh, there is no door,' replied Halfman.'Then how did you climb up?''A fish carried me on his back.''And what am I to do?''You must go and fetch all your relations, and tell them to bring plentyof sticks. then you must light a fire, and let it burn till the towerbecomes red hot. After that you can easily throw it down.''Very good,' said the ogre, and he went round to every relation he had,and told them to collect wood and bring it to the tower where Halfmanwas. The men did as they were ordered, and soon the tower was glowinglike coral, but when they flung themselves against it to overthrow it,they caught themselves on fire and were burnt to death. And overhead satHalfman, laughing heartily. But the ogre's wife was still alive, for shehad taken no part in kindling the fire.'Oh,' she shrieked with rage, 'you have killed my daughters and myhusband, and all the men belonging to me. how can I get at you to avengemyself?''Oh, that is easy enough,' said Halfman. 'I will let down a rope, and ifyou tie it tightly round you, I will draw it up.''All right,' returned the ogress, fastening the rope which Halfman letdown. 'Now pull me up.''Are you sure it is secure?''Yes, quite sure.''Don't be afraid.''Oh, I am not afraid at all!'So Halfman slowly drew her up, and when she was near the top he let gothe rope, and she fell down and broke her neck. Then Halfman heaved agreat sigh and said, 'That was hard work. the rope has hurt my handsbadly, but now I am rid of her for ever.'So Halfman came down from the tower, and went on, till he got to adesert place, and as he was very tired, he lay down to sleep. Whileit was still dark, an ogress passed by, and she woke him and said,'Halfman, to morrow your brother is to marry your wife.''Oh, how can I stop it?' asked he. 'Will you help me?''Yes, I will,' replied the ogress.'Thank you, thank you!' cried Halfman, kissing her on the forehead. 'Mywife is dearer to me than anything else in the world, and it is not mybrother's fault that I am not dead long ago.''Very well, I will rid you of him,' said the ogress, 'but only on onecondition. If a boy is born to you, you must give him to me!''Oh, anything,' answered Halfman, 'as long as you deliver me from mybrother, and get me my wife.''Mount on my back, then, and in a quarter of an hour we shall be there.'The ogress was as good as her word, and in a few minutes they arrived atthe outskirts of the town where Halfman and his brothers lived. Hereshe left him, while she went into the town itself, and found the weddingguests just leaving the brother's house. Unnoticed by anyone, the ogresscrept into a curtain, changing herself into a scorpion, and when thebrother was going to get into bed, she stung him behind the ear, so thathe fell dead where he stood. Then she returned to Halfman and told himto go and claim his bride. He jumped up hastily from his seat, andtook the road to his father's house. As he drew near he heard soundsof weeping and lamentations, and he said to a man he met: 'What is thematter?''The judge's eldest son was married yesterday, and died suddenly beforenight.''Well,' thought Halfman, 'my conscience is clear anyway, for it is quiteplain he coveted my wife, and that is why he tried to drown me.' Hewent at once to his father's room, and found him sitting in tears onthe floor. 'Dear father,' said Halfman, 'are you not glad to see me? Youweep for my brother, but I am your son too, and he stole my bride fromme and tried to drown me in the brook. If he is dead, I at least amalive.''No, no, he was better than you!' moaned the father.'Why, dear father?''He told me you had behaved very ill,' said he.'Well, call my brothers,' answered Halfman, 'as I have a story to tellthem.' So the father called them all into his presence. Then Halfmanbegan: 'After we were twelve days' journey from home, we met an ogress,who gave us greeting and said, "Why have you been so long coming? Thedaughters of your uncle have waited for you in vain," and she bade usfollow her to the house, saying, "Now there need be no more delay. youcan marry your cousins as soon as you please, and take them with you toyour own home." But I warned my brothers that the man was not our uncle,but an ogre.'When we lay down to sleep, she spread a red cloth over us, and coveredher daughters with a white one. but I changed the cloths, and when theogress came back in the middle of the night, and looked at the cloths,she mistook her own daughters for my brothers, and killed them one byone, all but the youngest. Then I woke my brothers, and we all stolesoftly from the house, and we rode like the wind to our real uncle.'And when he saw us, he bade us welcome, and married us to his twelvedaughters, the eldest to the eldest, and so on to me, whose bride wasthe youngest of all and also the prettiest. And my brothers were filledwith envy, and left me to drown in a brook, but I was saved by a fishwho showed me how to get out. Now, you are a judge! Who did well, andwho did evil I or my brothers?''Is this story true?' said the father, turning to his sons.'It is true, my father,' answered they. 'It is even as Halfman has said,and the girl belongs to him.'Then the judge embraced Halfman and said to him: 'You have done well, myson. Take your bride, and may you both live long and happily together!'At the end of the year Halfman's wife had a son, and not long after shecame one day hastily into the room, and found her husband weeping. 'Whatis the matter?' she asked.'The matter?' said he.'Yes, why are you weeping?''Because,' replied Halfman, 'the baby is not really ours, but belongs toan ogress.''Are you mad?' cried the wife. 'What do you mean by talking like that?''I promised,' said Halfman, 'when she undertook to kill my brother andto give you to me, that the first son we had should be hers.''And will she take him from us now?' said the poor woman.'No, not quite yet,' replied Halfman. 'when he is bigger.''And is she to have all our children?' asked she.'No, only this one,' returned Halfman.Day by day the boy grew bigger, and one day as he was playing in thestreet with the other children, the ogress came by. 'Go to your father,'she said, 'and repeat this speech to him: "I want my forfeit. when am Ito have it?"''All right,' replied the child, but when he went home forgot all aboutit. The next day the ogress came again, and asked the boy what answerthe father had given. 'I forgot all about it,' said he.'Well, put this ring on your finger, and then you won't forget.''Very well,' replied the boy, and went home.The next morning, as he was at breakfast, his mother said to him,'Child, where did you get that ring?''A woman gave it to me yesterday, and she told me, father, to tell youthat she wanted her forfeit, and when was she to have it?'Then his father burst into tears and said, 'If she comes again youmust say to her that your parents bid her take her forfeit at once, anddepart.'At this they both began to weep afresh, and his mother kissed him, andput on his new clothes and said, 'If the woman bids you to follow her,you must go,' but the boy did not heed her grief, he was so pleasedwith his new clothes. And when he went out, he said to his play fellows,'Look how smart I am. I am going away with my aunt to foreign lands.'At that moment the ogress came up and asked him, 'Did you give mymessage to your father and mother?''Yes, dear aunt, I did.''And what did they say?''Take it away at once!'So she took him.But when dinner time came, and the boy did not return, his father andmother knew that he would never come back, and they sat down and weptall day. At last Halfman rose up and said to his wife, 'Be comforted. wewill wait a year, and then I will go to the ogress and see the boy, andhow he is cared for.''Yes, that will be the best,' said she.The year passed away, then Halfman saddled his horse, and rode to theplace where the ogress had found him sleeping. She was not there, butnot knowing what to do next, he got off his horse and waited. Aboutmidnight she suddenly stood before him.'Halfman, why did you come here?' said she.'I have a question I want to ask you.''Well, ask it. but I know quite well what it is. Your wife wishes you toask whether I shall carry off your second son as I did the first.''Yes, that is it,' replied Halfman. Then he seized her hand and said,'Oh, let me see my son, and how he looks, and what he is doing.'The ogress was silent, but stuck her staff hard in the earth, and theearth opened, and the boy appeared and said, 'Dear father, have you cometoo?' And his father clasped him in his arms, and began to cry. But theboy struggled to be free, saying 'Dear father, put me down. I have gota new mother, who is better than the old one. and a new father, who isbetter than you.'Then his father sat him down and said, 'Go in peace, my boy, but listenfirst to me. Tell your father the ogre and your mother the ogress, thatnever more shall they have any children of mine.''All right,' replied the boy, and called 'Mother!''What is it?''You are never to take away any more of my father and mother'schildren!''Now that I have got you, I don't want any more,' answered she.Then the boy turned to his father and said, 'Go in peace, dear father,and give my mother greeting and tell her not to be anxious any more, forshe can keep all her children.'And Halfman mounted his horse and rode home, and told his wife all hehad seen, and the message sent by Mohammed Mohammed the son of Halfman,the son of the judge.(Marchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis. Hans von Stumme.)