Now, though the jackal was dead, he had left two sons behind him, everywhit as cunning and tricky as their father. The elder of the two was afine handsome creature, who had a pleasant manner and made manyfriends. The animal he saw most of was a hyena. and one day, when theywere taking a walk together, they picked up a beautiful green cloak,which had evidently been dropped by some one riding across the plain ona camel. Of course each wanted to have it, and they almost quarrelledover the matter. but at length it was settled that the hyena shouldwear the cloak by day and the jackal by night. After a little while,however, the jackal became discontented with this arrangement,declaring that none of his friends, who were quite different from thoseof the hyena, could see the splendour of the mantle, and that it wasonly fair that he should sometimes be allowed to wear it by day. Tothis the hyena would by no means consent, and they were on the eve of aquarrel when the hyena proposed that they should ask the lion to judgebetween them. The jackal agreed to this, and the hyena wrapped thecloak about him, and they both trotted off to the lion's den.The jackal, who was fond of talking, at once told the story. and whenit was finished the lion turned to the hyena and asked if it was true.'Quite true, your majesty,' answered the hyena.'Then lay the cloak on the ground at my feet,' said the lion, 'and Iwill give my judgment.' So the mantle was spread upon the red earth,the hyena and the jackal standing on each side of it.There was silence for a few moments, and then the lion sat up, lookingvery great and wise.'My judgment is that the garment shall belong wholly to whoever firstrings the bell of the nearest mosque at dawn to morrow. Now go. formuch business awaits me!'All that night the hyena sat up, fearing lest the jackal should reachthe bell before him, for the mosque was close at hand. With the firststreak of dawn he bounded away to the bell, just as the jackal, who hadslept soundly all night, was rising to his feet.'Good luck to you,' cried the jackal. And throwing the cloak over hisback he darted away across the plain, and was seen no more by hisfriend the hyena.After running several miles the jackal thought he was safe frompursuit, and seeing a lion and another hyena talking together, hestrolled up to join them.'Good morning,' he said. 'may I ask what is the matter? You seem veryserious about something.''Pray sit down,' answered the lion. 'We were wondering in whichdirection we should go to find the best dinner. The hyena wishes to goto the forest, and I to the mountains. What do you say?''Well, as I was sauntering over the plain, just now, I noticed a flockof sheep grazing, and some of them had wandered into a little valleyquite out of sight of the shepherd. If you keep among the rocks youwill never be observed. But perhaps you will allow me to go with youand show you the way?''You are really very kind,' answered the lion. And they crept steadilyalong till at length they reached the mouth of the valley where a ram,a sheep and a lamb were feeding on the rich grass, unconscious of theirdanger.'How shall we divide them?' asked the lion in a whisper to the hyena.'Oh, it is easily done,' replied the hyena. 'The lamb for me, thesheep for the jackal, and the ram for the lion.''So I am to have that lean creature, which is nothing but horns, am I?'cried the lion in a rage. 'I will teach you to divide things in thatmanner!' And he gave the hyena two great blows, which stretched himdead in a moment. Then he turned to the jackal and said: 'How wouldyou divide them?''Quite differently from the hyena,' replied the jackal. 'You willbreakfast off the lamb, you will dine off the sheep, and you will supoff the ram.''Dear me, how clever you are! Who taught you such wisdom?' exclaimedthe lion, looking at him admiringly.'The fate of the hyena,' answered the jackal, laughing, and running offat his best speed. for he saw two men armed with spears coming closebehind the lion!The jackal continued to run till at last he could run no longer. Heflung himself under a tree panting for breath, when he heard a rustleamongst the grass, and his father's old friend the hedgehog appearedbefore him.'Oh, is it you?' asked the little creature. 'how strange that we shouldmeet so far from home!''I have just had a narrow escape of my life,' gasped the jackal, 'and Ineed some sleep. After that we must think of something to do to amuseourselves.' And he lay down again and slept soundly for a couple ofhours.'Now I am ready,' said he. 'have you anything to propose?''In a valley beyond those trees,' answered the hedgehog, 'there is asmall farmhouse where the best butter in the world is made. I knowtheir ways, and in an hour's time the farmer's wife will be off to milkthe cows, which she keeps at some distance. We could easily get in atthe window of the shed where she keeps the butter, and I will watch,lest some one should come unexpectedly, while you have a good meal.Then you shall watch, and I will eat.''That sounds a good plan,' replied the jackal. and they set offtogether.But when they reached the farmhouse the jackal said to the hedgehog:'Go in and fetch the pots of butter and I will hide them in a safeplace.''Oh no,' cried the hedgehog, 'I really couldn't. They would find outdirectly! And, besides, it is so different just eating a little nowand then.''Do as I bid you at once,' said the jackal, looking at the hedgehog sosternly that the little fellow dared say no more, and soon rolled thejars to the window where the jackal lifted them out one by one.When they were all in a row before him he gave a sudden start.'Run for your life,' he whispered to his companion. 'I see the womancoming over the hill!' And the hedgehog, his heart beating, set off asfast as he could. The jackal remained where he was, shaking withlaughter, for the woman was not in sight at all, and he had only sentthe hedgehog away because he did not want him to know where the jars ofbutter were buried. But every day he stole out to their hiding placeand had a delicious feast.At length, one morning, the hedgehog suddenly said:'You never told me what you did with those jars?''Oh, I hid them safely till the farm people should have forgotten allabout them,' replied the jackal. 'But as they are still searching forthem we must wait a little longer, and then I'll bring them home, andwe will share them between us.'So the hedgehog waited and waited. but every time he asked if there wasno chance of getting jars of butter the jackal put him off with someexcuse. After a while the hedgehog became suspicious, and said:'I should like to know where you have hidden them. To night, when itis quite dark, you shall show me the place.''I really can't tell you,' answered the jackal. 'You talk so much thatyou would be sure to confide the secret to somebody, and then we shouldhave had our trouble for nothing, besides running the risk of our necksbeing broken by the farmer. I can see that he is getting disheartened,and very soon he will give up the search. Have patience just a littlelonger.'The hedgehop said no more, and pretended to be satisfied. but when somedays had gone by he woke the jackal, who was sleeping soundly after ahunt which had lasted several hours.'I have just had notice,' remarked the hedgehog, shaking him, 'that myfamily wish to have a banquet to morrow, and they have invited you toit. Will you come?''Certainly,' answered the jackal, 'with pleasure. But as I have to goout in the morning you can meet me on the road.''That will do very well,' replied the hedgehog. And the jackal went tosleep again, for he was obliged to be up early.Punctual to the moment the hedgehog arrived at the place appointed fortheir meeting, and as the jackal was not there he sat down and waitedfor him.'Ah, there you are!' he cried, when the dusky yellow form at lastturned the corner. 'I had nearly given you up! Indeed, I almost wishyou had not come, for I hardly know where I shall hide you.''Why should you hide me anywhere?' asked the jackal. 'What is thematter with you?''Well, so many of the guests have brought their dogs and mules withthem, that I fear it may hardly be safe for you to go amongst them.No. don't run off that way,' he added quickly, 'because there isanother troop that are coming over the hill. Lie down here, and I willthrow these sacks over you. and keep still for your life, whateverhappens.'And what did happen was, that when the jackal was lying covered up,under a little hill, the hedgehog set a great stone rolling, whichcrushed him to death.