Maurice Connor was the king, and that's no small word, of all the pipersin Munster. He could play jig and reel without end, and Ollistrum'sMarch, and the Eagle's Whistle, and the Hen's Concert, and odd tunes ofevery sort and kind. But he knew one far more surprising than the rest,which had in it the power to set everything dead or alive dancing.In what way he learned it is beyond my knowledge for he was mightycautious about telling how he came by so wonderful a tune. At the veryfirst note of that tune the shoes began shaking upon the feet of all howheard it old or young, it mattered not just as if the shoes had theague. then the feet began going, going, going from under them, and atlast up and away with them, dancing like mad, whisking here, there, andeverywhere, like a straw in a storm there was no halting while themusic lasted.Not a fair, nor a wedding, nor a feast in the seven parishes round, wascounted worth the speaking of without 'blind Maurice and his pipes.'His mother, poor woman, used to lead him about from one place to anotherjust like a dog.Down through Iveragh, Maurice Connor and his mother were taking theirrounds. Beyond all other places Iveragh is the place for stormy coastsand steep mountains, as proper a spot it is as any in Ireland to getyourself drowned, or your neck broken on the land, should you preferthat. But, notwithstanding, in Ballinskellig Bay there is a neat bit ofground, well fitted for diversion, and down from it, towards the water,is a clean smooth piece of strand, the dead image of a calm summer's seaon a moonlight night, with just the curl of the small waves upon it.Here is was that Maurice's music had brought from all parts a greatgathering of the young men and the young women. for 'twas not every daythe strand of Trafraska was stirred up by the voice of a bagpipe. Thedance began. and as pretty a dance it was as ever was danced. 'Bravemusic,' said everybody, 'and well done,' when Maurice stopped.'More power to your elbow, Maurice, and a fair wind in the bellows,'cried Paddy Dorman, a hump backed dancing master, who was there to keeporder. ''Tis a pity,' said he, 'if we'd let the piper run dry after suchmusic. 'twould be a disgrace to Iveragh, that didn't come on it sincethe week of the three Sundays.' So, as well became him, for he wasalways a decent man, says he, 'Did you drink, piper?''I will, sir,' said Maurice, answering the question on the safe side,for you never yet knew piper or schoolmaster who refused his drink.'What will you drink, Maurice?' says Paddy.'I'm no ways particular,' says Maurice. 'I drink anything, barringraw water. but if it's all the same to you, Mister Dorman, may be youwouldn't lend me the loan of a glass of whisky.''I've no glass, Maurice,' said Paddy. 'I've only the bottle.''Let that be no hindrance,' answered Maurice. 'my mouth just holds aglass to the drop. often I've tried it sure.'So Paddy Dorman trusted him with the bottle more fool was he. and, tohis cost, he found that though Maurice's mouth might not hold more thanthe glass at one time, yet, owing to the hole in his throat, it tookmany a filling.'That was no bad whisky neither,' says Maurice, handing back the emptybottle.'By the holy frost, then!' says Paddy, ''tis but cold comfort there's inthat bottle now. and 'tis your word we must take for the strength ofthe whisky, for you've left us no sample to judge by'. and to be sureMaurice had not.Now I need not tell any gentleman or lady that if he or she was to drinkan honest bottle of whisky at one pull, it is not at all the same thingas drinking a bottle of water. and in the whole course of my life Inever knew more than five men who could do so without being the worse.Of these Maurice Connor was not one, though he had a stiff head enoughof his own. Don't think I blame him for it. but true is the word thatsays, 'When liquor's in sense is out'. and puff, at a breath, out heblasted his wonderful tune.'Twas really then beyond all belief or telling the dancing. Mauricehimself could not keep quiet. staggering now on one leg, now on theother, and rolling about like a ship in a cross sea, trying to humourthe tune. There was his mother, too, moving her old bones as light asthe youngest girl of them all. but her dancing, no, nor the dancingof all the rest, is not worthy the speaking about to the work that wasgoing on down upon the strand. Every inch of it covered with all mannerof fish jumping and plunging about to the music, and every moment moreand more would tumble in and out of the water, charmed by the wonderfultune. Crabs of monstrous size spun round and round on one claw with thenimbleness of a dancing master, and twirled and tossed their other clawsabout like limbs that did not belong to them. It was a sight surprisingto behold. But perhaps you may have heard of Father Florence Conry, aspleasant a man as one would wish to drink with of a hot summer's day.and he had rhymed out all about the dancing fishes so neatly that itwould be a thousand pities not to give you his verses. so here they arein English:The big seals in motion,Like waves of the ocean,Or gouty feet prancing,Came heading the gay fish,Crabs, lobsters, and cray fish,Determined on dancing.The sweet sounds they followed,The gasping cod swallow'd 'Twas wonderful, really.And turbot and flounder,'Mid fish that were rounder,Just caper'd as gaily.John dories came tripping.Dull hake, by their skipping,To frisk it seem'd given.Bright mackrel went springing,Like small rainbows wingingTheir flight up to heaven.The whiting and haddockLeft salt water paddockThis dance to be put in.Where skate with flat facesEdged out some old plaices.But soles kept their footing.Sprats and herrings in powersOf silvery showersAll number out numbered.And great ling so lengthyWas there in such plentyThe shore was encumber'd.The scallop and oysterTheir two shells did roister,Like castanets flitting.While limpets moved clearly,And rocks very nearlyWith laughter were splitting.Never was such a hullabaloo in this world, before or since. 'twas as ifheaven and earth were coming together. and all out of Maurice Connor'swonderful tune!In the height of all these doings, what should there be dancing amongthe outlandish set of fishes but a beautiful young woman as beautifulas the dawn of day! She had a cocked hat upon her head. from under ither long green hair just the colour of the sea fell down behind,without hindrance to her dancing. Her teeth were like rows of pearls.her lips for all the world looked like red coral. and she had a shininggown pale green as the hollow of the wave, with little rows of purpleand red seaweeds settled out upon it. for you never yet saw a lady,under the water or over the water, who had not a good notion of dressingherself out.Up she danced at last to Maurice, who was flinging his feet from underhim as fast as hops for nothing in this world could keep still whilethat tune of his was going on and says she to him, chanting it out witha voice as sweet as honey:I'm a lady of honourWho live in the sea.Come down, Maurice Connor,And be married to me.Silver plates and gold dishesYou shall have, and shall beThe king of the fishes,When you're married to me.Drink was strong in Maurice's head, and out he chanted in return for hergreat civility. It is not every lady, may be, that would be after makingsuch an offer to a blind piper. therefore 'twas only right in him togive her as good as she gave herself, so says Maurice:I'm obliged to you, madam:Off a gold dish or plate,If a king, and I had 'em,I could dine in great state.With your own father's daughterI'd be sure to agree,But to drink the salt waterWouldn't do so with me!The lady looked at him quite amazed, and swinging her head from side toside like a great scholar, 'Well,' says she, 'Maurice, if you're not apoet, where is poetry to be found?'In this way they kept on at it, framing high compliments. one answeringthe other, and their feet going with the music as fast as their tongues.All the fish kept dancing, too. Maurice heard the clatter and wasafraid to stop playing lest it might be displeasing to the fish, and notknowing what so many of them may take it into their heads to do to himif they got vexed.Well, the lady with the green hair kept on coaxing Maurice with softspeeches, till at last she over persuaded him to promise to marry her,and be king over the fishes, great and small. Maurice was well fittedto be their king, if they wanted one that could make them dance. and hesurely would drink, barring the salt water, with any fish of them all.When Maurice's mother saw him with that unnatural thing in the form of agreen haired lady as his guide, and he and she dancing down togetherso lovingly to the water's edge, through the thick of the fishes, shecalled out after him to stop and come back. 'Oh, then,' says she, 'asif I was not widow enough before, there he is going away from me to bemarried to that scaly woman. And who knows but 'tis grandmother I may beto a hake or a cod Lord help and pity me, but 'tis a mighty unnaturalthing! And my be 'tis boiling and eating my own grandchild I'll be, witha bit of salt butter, and I not knowing it! Oh, Maurice, Maurice, ifthere's any love or nature left in you, come back to your own ouldmother, who reared you like a decent Christian!' Then the poor womanbegan to cry and sob so finely that it would do anyone good to hear her.Maurice was not long getting to the rim of the water. There he keptplaying and dancing on as if nothing was the matter, and a greatthundering wave coming in towards him ready to swallow him up alive. butas he could not see it, he did not fear it. His mother it was who sawit plainly through the big tears that were rolling down her cheeks. andthough she saw it, and her heart was aching as much as ever mother'sheart ached for a son, she kept dancing, dancing all the time for thebare life of her. Certain it was she could not help it, for Mauricenever stopped playing that wonderful tune of his.He only turned his ear to the sound of his mother's voice, fearing itmight put him out in his steps, and all the answer he made back was,'Whisht with you mother sure I'm going to be king over the fishes downin the sea, and for a token of luck, and a sign that I'm alive and well,I'll send you in, every twelvemonth on this day, a piece of burned woodto Trafraska.' Maurice had not the power to say a word more, for thestrange lady with the green hair, seeing the wave just upon them,covered him up with herself in a thing like a cloak with a big hood toit, and the wave curling over twice as high as their heads, burst uponthe strand, with a rush and a roar that might be heard as far as CapeClear.That day twelvemonth the piece of burned wood came ashore in Trafraska.It was a queer thing for Maurice to think of sending all the wayfrom the bottom of the sea. A gown or a pair of shoes would have beensomething like a present for his poor mother. but he had said it, andhe kept his word. The bit of burned wood regularly came ashore on theappointed day for as good, ay, and better than a hundred years. Theday is now forgotten, and may be that is the reason why people say howMaurice Connor has stopped sending the luck token to his mother. Poorwoman, she did not live to get as much as one of them. for what throughthe loss of Maurice, and the fear of eating her own grandchildren, shedied in three weeks after the dance. Some say it was the fatigue thatkilled her, but whichever it was, Mrs. Connor was decently buried withher own people.Seafaring people have often heard, off the coast of Kerry, on a stillnight, the sound of music coming up from the water. and some, who havehad good ears, could plainly distinguish Maurice Connor's voice singingthese words to his pipes Beautiful shore, with thy spreading strand,Thy crystal water, and diamond sand.Never would I have parted from thee,But for the sake of my fair ladie.From 'Fairy Tales and Traditions of the South of Ireland.'