ManWhere there was, where there was not, it is enough that there was once amerchant, there were also a king, and a poor man.One day the merchant went out to hunt, and he traveled and journeyed till,oh! my lord's son, he found himself in such a thick forest that he sawneither the sky nor the earth. he just groped around like a blind man.Here, 'pon my soul! whether the merchant tried to free himself by turningto the left or the right, he only went into a thicker place.When he was there five days, in hunger and thirst, stumbling about in thegreat wild wood without liberation, the merchant called out, "Oh, my God,if anyone would take me out of this great wild thicket to the right road,I would give him the best of my three daughters, and as a wedding giftthree sacks of coin.""I'll lead thee out right away," said someone before him.The merchant looked to the right, to the left, but not a soul did he see."Don't look around," said the certain one again. "Look under thy feet."The merchant then looked in front and saw that near his feet was a littlehedgehog, and to him he directed then his word and speech."Well, if thou wilt lead me out, I will give thee my best daughter andthree sacks of coin. the first will be gold, the second silver, and thethird copper."The hedgehog went on ahead, the merchant walked after. Soon they came outof the great wild wood. Then the hedgehog went back, and the merchantturned his wagon tongue homeward.Now the king went to hunt, went in the same way as the merchant. and hetoo was lost in the great wild wood. The king went to the right and theleft, tried in every way to free himself. all he gained was that he cameto a thicker and a darker place. He too stumbled around five days in thethick wood, without food or drink.On the sixth morning the king cried out, "Oh, my God! If any one wouldfree me from this dense wood, even if a worm, I would give him the mostbeautiful of my daughters, and as a wedding gift three coaches full ofcoin.""I'll lead thee out right away," said someone near him. The king looked tothe right, to the left, but saw not a soul."Why stare around? Look at thy feet. here I am."The king then looked at his feet and saw a little hedgehog stretched out,and said to him, " Well, hedgehog, if thou wilt lead me forth, I'll givethee the fairest of my daughters and three coaches full of coin: thefirst gold, the second silver, the third copper."The hedgehog went ahead, the king followed, and in this way they soon cameout of the great wild wood. The hedgehog went back to his own place. theking reached home in safety.Very well, a poor man went out for dry branches. He went like the merchantand king, and he got astray, so that he wandered dry and hungry for fivedays in the great wild wood. and whether he turned to the right or theleft he gained only this, that he went deeper into the denseness."My God," cried the poor man at last, "send me a liberator! If he wouldlead me out of this place, as I have neither gold nor silver, I would takehim as a son, and care for him as my own child.""Well, my lord father, I'll lead thee out. only follow.""Where art thou, dear son?""Here, under thy feet. only look this way, my lord father."The poor man looked near his feet, and saw a little hedgehog stretchedout."Well, my dear son, lead me out and I'll keep my promise."The hedgehog went ahead, the poor man followed, and soon they came out ofthe great wild wood. The hedgehog then went back to his own place, and thepoor man strolled home. Well, things remained thus till once after bedtimethere was a knocking at the poor man's door."My lord father, rise up, open the door."The poor man, who was lying on the stove, heard only that some one wasknocking at the door."My lord father, rise up, open the door."The poor man heard, and heard that some one was knocking and as he thoughtcalling out, "My lord father, rise up, open the door." But in his worldlife he had never had a son. The third time he heard clearly, "My lordfather, rise up, open the door."The poor man did not take this as a joke. He rose up and opened the door.My lord's son, who came in to him? No one else than the little hedgehog."God give a good evening to my lord father and to my mother as well," saidthe hedgehog."God receive thee, my dear son. Hast thou come then?""I have indeed, as thou seest, my lord father. but I am very tired,therefore wake up my mother and let her make a bed for me in my chamber."What was the poor man to do? He woke up his wife. she made a towering bed,and the hedgehog lay in it. In the morning the poor man and his wife satdown to breakfast. They did not wish to forget their adopted son, but gavehim food on a wooden plate under a bench by the fire. The hedgehog did nottouch it."Well, my son," asked the poor man, "why not eat?""I do not eat, my lord father, because it is not proper to treat anadopted son like some orphan or another. therefore it beseems me not toeat all alone from a wooden plate under a bench at the fire. Seat menicely at the table by thy side, put a tin plate before me, and place myfood on it."What was the poor man to do? He seated the hedgehog at his side, put a tinplate before him, and measured out food on it. then the hedgehog ate withhis father and mother.When they had finished breakfast the hedgehog spoke thuswise, "Well, mylord father, hast thou a couple of thalers?""I have.""I suppose thou art keeping them to buy salt and wood with?""Yes, my son.""I speak not of that, I am speaking of this: lend me the money. I willreturn it a thousand fold. Set not thy mind much on salt and wood now. butgo, my lord father, to the market. In such and such a place an old womanhas a black cock for sale. buy him of her. If she asks a small price, giveher double. for that will be my steed. When thou hast bought the cock fortwo prices, in such and such a place is a saddler. go to him. In a cornerof his shop is a castaway, thrown away, ragged, torn saddle. buy that forme, but give him two prices also. If he asks little, give him double."The poor man put on his coat, put the two thalers in his pocket, went tothe market, bought the black cock and the cast away, thrown away saddlefor two prices. each one for two small bits of money. The hedgehog thensaddled the black cock with the cast away, thrown away saddle, sat uponhim, and went to the court of the rich merchant whom he had led out of thegreat wild wood.He knocked at the door and called, "Hei, father in law, open the gate, letme in!"The rich merchant opened the gate in great wonder. Who was coming? No oneother than our hedgehog, riding on a black cock."Hear me, rich merchant," began the hedgehog. "knowest thou thy promise?When I led thee out of the great wild wood, dost remember thy promise togive me the best of thy three daughters and three sacks of coin? Now Ihave come for the maid and the money."What could the rich merchant do? He called his three daughters into thewhite chamber, and turned to the hedgehog, saying, "Well, choose among thethree the one who pleases thy eye, thy mouth, and thy heart."The hedgehog chose the second daughter, for she was the most beautiful ofthe three. The merchant then measured out three sacks of coin. In thefirst, as he had said, there was gold, in the second silver, in the thirdcopper. then he put his daughter and the three sacks of coin in a coach,to which four horses were attached, and he sent on her way his mostbeautiful daughter, with the hedgehog. They traveled and journeyed tillthe hedgehog, who was riding at the side of the coach on his black cock,came up, looked in through the window, and saw that the bride was intears."Why dost thou cry, why dost thou weep, my heart's beautiful love?" askedthe hedgehog of the maiden."Why should I not cry, why should I not weep, when God has punished mewith such a nasty thing as thee? For I know not whether thou art a man ora beast.""If this is thy only trouble, my heart's beautiful love, we can easilycure it. I'll keep the three sacks of coin for myself, and thee I'll sendback to thy father, for I see that of me thou art not worthy."Thus was it settled. the hedgehog kept the three sacks of coin, but themerchant's daughter he sent back to her father. The hedgehog then took thecoin to the poor man, who became so rich that I think another could not befound like him in seven villages.Now the hedgehog plucked up courage, saddled his black cock, sat on him,and rode away to the king, stood before him, and spoke in this fashion,"Dost thou remember, king, that when I brought thee out of the great wildwood, thou didst promise that if I would show the right road thou wouldstgive me the most beautiful of thy three daughters and fill for me threecoaches, the first with gold, the second with silver, and the third withcopper coin? I am here so that thou mayest keep thy word."The king called his three daughters to the white chamber and said, "I madea promise, and this is it: to give one of my three daughters to thishedgehog as wife. I promised because the hedgehog led me out of a greatwild wood, in which I wandered for five days without food or drink, and hesaved me from certain death. Therefore say, my dear daughters, which ofyou will agree to marry the hedgehog."The eldest daughter turned away, the second turned away also. but theyoungest and fairest spoke thus, "If thou, my father the king, hast madesuch a promise, I will marry him. Let the will of God be done if he hasappointed such a husband for me.""Thou art my dearest and best daughter," said the king. and he kissed heragain and again.Then the king measured out three coaches of coin, seated the princess in achariot of gold and glass and started her on her journey, amid bittertear shedding, with the hedgehog, who rode at the side of the chariot onhis black cock. They traveled and journeyed across forty nine kingdomstill the hedgehog rode up to the chariot, opened the window, looked in,and saw that the princess was not weeping, but was in the best cheerfulhumor."Oh, my heart's beautiful love," said the princess, "why art thou ridingon that black cock? Better come here and sit at my side on the velvetcushion.""Thou art not afraid of me?""I am not afraid.""Thou art not disgusted with me? ""No. if God has given thee to me, then thou shouldst be mine.""Thou art my only and most beloved wife!" said the hedgehog. and with thathe shook himself, and straightway turned into such a pearl given,charming, twenty four years old king's son that tongue could not tell:golden haired, golden mouthed, golden toothed. And the black cock shookhimself three times, and became such a golden haired magic steed that hisequal would have to be sought for. the castaway, thrown away saddle becamegolden. everything on it was gold to the last buckle.The king's son then picked out the most beautiful place in the kingdom.standing in the middle of this he thought once, and suddenly that instantthere stood before him a copper roofed marble palace, turning on a cock'sfoot, and in it every kind of the most varied and beautiful goldenfurniture. Everything and everything was of gold, beginning with themirror frame and ending with the cooking spoon. The king's son conductedthe beautiful golden bird   the fair princess   into the pearl givenpalace, where, like birds in a nest, they lived in quiet harmony.When the merchant's three daughters and the two elder princesses heard ofthe happiness of the youngest princess,   how well she had married,  in their sorrow one of them jumped into a well, another drowned herself ina hemp pond, and a third was drawn dead out of the river Tisza (Theiss).In this way four of the maidens came to an evil end. but the seconddaughter of the merchant gritted her teeth venomously at the princess, andmade a firm and merciless resolve that she would embitter her life'shappiness.She went therefore to the palace, and found service in the guise of an oldwoman. She, the devil given, came at a critical time. for the Burkus(Prussian) king had declared war against the king's son, and the princess,while her husband was in the field, was left to the care of the merchant'sdaughter, disguised as an old woman. Milk might as well be confided to acat as the princess to that cockroach of the underground kingdom.While the king's son was gone, the Lord gave the princess two beautifulchildren. The old woman packed them into a basket, put them under a treein the woods, then ran back to the princess, who, recovering from a faintinto which she had fallen, asked the old woman to give her the children sothat she might embrace and kiss them."High queen," answered the old woman, "what is the use in delay or denial?They were two untimely, hairy monsters, and to save thee from terror atsight of them, I threw both into the river."The two children slept quietly under the tree till a white deer burst withgreat noise through the thicket, went straight as if sent, and taking thebasket hung it on his antlers. then the white deer disappeared in theforest, went on till he came to the bank of a stream, where he calledthree times. The Forest Maiden appeared as if by magic, took the basketwith great delight, and ran panting into her own palace. The two childrenwere seven years with the Forest Maiden, who reared them as carefully asif they had been her own.Here, 'pon my soul, what came of the affair, or what did not, the ForestMaiden once sent the little girl with a green jug for water, and enjoinedon her rigorously to be careful not to break the jug. The little girl didnot let this be said twice. she was obedient and attentive. She took thejug, and was at the well in a moment. When she came, she saw a littlegolden bird flying around the well. Being a child, she wanted to catch thegolden bird, therefore ran around with the jug in her hand till at lastshe saw that only the handle was left. The little girl, terrified, burstinto tears, sat at the edge of the well, and cried there.The Forest Maiden waited and waited. but she could not wait longer,therefore she sent the little brother with a second jug, and told himsternly to be careful not to break the jug. The little brother went in thesame way, for he also, like children of that age, barely saw the goldenbird when he wanted to strike it with the jug, which he whirled aroundtill only the handle remained in his hand. then he burst into tears, satby his sister, and there the two were crying at the edge of the well.Here, 'pon my soul, the golden bird pitied the children, and asked, "Whydo ye cry? Why do ye weep, pretty children?""Oh, pretty bird," answered the boy, who had more sense than his sister,"why should we not cry? Why should we not weep? We shall be flogged forbreaking the green jugs. our dear mother will whip us.""Oh, my children, she is not your own mother! She is only your fostermother. Your father and mother live far from here, beyond those greenmountains. so if ye will follow, I'll lead you home."The two children wanted nothing else. They went back no more to theirfoster mother, for they would be flogged. but they followed the goldenbird, which went always before them. And they traveled and journeyed tillonce in a forest they came upon a great heap of gold. near the gold was anumber of dice, as if some one had been playing there. The little boy andgirl each took a handful of gold, and went farther. They traveled andjourneyed till they came to an inn. since they were wearied, and it wasevening, they went in to ask lodging.In the inn three lords were playing dice. the two children at first merelynoticed that they were playing. At last the boy took from his pocket thehandful of gold, and began to play in such fashion that he won all themoney of the three lords. and then one of them spoke thuswise, "Well, mydear son, I see that thou hast good luck. I have in a certain place acharming flower garden. in the middle of the garden is a marble palace,and the palace has this peculiarity: if it is struck on the side threetimes with this golden rod, it will turn into a golden apple. and thoumayest put down the marble palace and the flower garden in any part of theworld if thou wilt strike the golden apple with the small end of thegolden rod. I will bet now this flower garden and this marble palace. Ifthou canst win, they'll be thine."The little boy agreed. and he won fortunately the flower garden and themarble palace. The other then gave him the golden rod, and showed himwhere the garden and the palace were. Next morning the children sought outthe garden and the palace, which the boy struck three times on the side,and it turned to a golden apple. he put the apple in his pocket, andstrolled on homeward. The little golden bird flew always ahead of them.They traveled and journeyed till one time the golden bird stopped andsaid, "Well, dear children, now we are at home. put down the golden appleon this spot and strike it three times with the rod, and ye will see whata beautiful marble palace and flowery garden there will be, speaking tothe seven kingdoms. The report of the palace and garden will circulateimmediately, and the king himself will come to look at them. Him ye musthonor as your father, for thou my little boy art the king's son, and thoumy little girl the king's daughter. Dear children, here in a golden frameis a picture which gives your arms and name. Hang in the palace thispicture, in the best place. but lest it be seen, cover it with velvet, andshow it to no man save your own father. When he asks what that picture is,draw the velvet from it, and the rest will follow."So it happened. the two children hung up the picture in the best room ofthe marble palace, and covered it with velvet. Now, the report ran todistant parts of the kingdom that there was a charming and wonderfulmarble palace in such and such a place, and people hastened from theseventh province distant to look at it. so that the report came to theears of the king himself.The king decided straightway to look at the flowery garden and marblepalace. but he had hardly conceived the idea when the old woman gave him adrug. The king fell ill, and could not see the flowery garden and marblepalace. and then the old woman, without invitation, stood before the kingand said, "High king, if thou art so curious to see this flowery gardenand marble palace, then I will go and see if they are as beautiful asreport says, and tell the story to thy Highness."The king in one way or another agreed, and the old woman went, not to seethe garden, but to bring the two children to evil destruction. the wickedcreature tried but succeeded not, for her weapons broke. Not to confoundone word with another, I will tell the whole tale in order and accuracy.The old witch had barely reached the famous flower garden when the twochildren hurried before her and showed everything from root to top, andthe old piece of leather began to talk thus, "It is true that the gardenis beautiful, but it would be seven times more beautiful if ye would bringthe world sounding tree.""What must be done to get that? " asked the little boy."Not other than this," answered the old skeleton, "In such and such aplace, in an enchanted palace, is the world sounding tree. but ye must gofor it and bring it."With that the old witch took farewell of the two children, and strolledhome. but the boy had no peace from that hour. He wanted to go and bringthe world sounding tree. therefore taking farewell of his sister withbitter tear shedding he set out for the tree. He was going and travelingacross forty nine kingdoms till he came to a dark castle. this was thefirst enchanted castle. A big, lame, hairy devil stood there on guard witha fearful whip, so that no man might enter.The hairy devil shouted very angrily at our boy, "Stop! Who is there?""I," answered the little boy."Who is I? Art thou Yanoshka? " asked the devil."I am.""What journey art thou on?""I am looking for the world beautifully sounding tree. Hast thou not heardof it, my lord elder brother?""I have not heard of it. but in such and such a place my brother standsguard, and if he has not heard of it, then no one in the world has."Yanoshka went forward on the right road in search of the world soundingtree. He traveled and journeyed till he came to another enchanted darkcastle. there a big, lame, hairy devil was standing on guard who shoutedto our Yanoshka in great anger. Our Yanoshka was much braver now, for heknew he had nothing to fear."Who is it?" called out the devil."I.""Art thou Yanoshka?""I am, at the service of my lord elder brother.""Why art thou journeying here in this strange land, where even a bird doesnot go?""I am looking for the world beautifully sounding tree. Hast thou not heardof it, my lord elder brother?""What is the use in delay or denial? I have not heard. but in such andsuch a place my eldest brother is on guard, and if he knows nothing of it,then no one in the world knows."With this Yanoshka moved on towards the third enchanted castle. when hecame, there was a big, lame, hairy devil on guard, who called out in greatanger to Yanoshka, "Who is that?""I.""Thou art Yanoshka?""I am.""Why art thou journeying here in this strange land, where even a bird doesnot go?""I am looking for the world beautifully sounding tree. Hast thou not heardof it, my lord elder brother?""Ho, ho, Yanoshka! of course I have. it is here in the garden of thisenchanted palace. Thou mayest take it, but only if thou obey my words. Ifthou dost not value them or dost not observe them, thou wilt never seeGod's bright sky or the shining day again. I only want to say this: Hereis a golden rod. strike the wall of the enchanted castle with it threetimes. Straightway a door will open before thee. In the very middle of thegarden thou wilt find the world beautifully sounding tree. Go around itthree times and then hurry like a shot arrow, with the speed of a dog, orthe stone wall will close, and thou wilt remain inside. and if thou artonce shut in, God have mercy and pity on thee, for that instant thou wiltbe turned to stone. This is my word and speech. if thou cling to it, thouwilt be lucky. if not, thou wilt be wretched forever."The boy took the golden rod and struck the side of the enchanted castlewith it. That instant the door opened before him. The king's son did notinquire much whether he might enter or not. in a moment he ran in throughthe door and straight to the garden. Every kind of singing and dancingmaidens came to meet him,   some with citharas and harps. some playedon cymbals and begged him to play and dance with them. some offered richfood and drink of every kind agreeable to the taste.But the king's son had no mind to eat or drink. he pushed aside themaidens and ran to the very center of the garden, where theworld beautifully sounding tree was. then he went around it three times,turning toward the point whence he had come. That done he rushed from thegarden, and a thousand times lucky was he. It was not the same for him tobe a few minutes later, for the door closed and bit off the heel of hisboot. but he did not care much about the heel of his boot. He ran home onthe same road over which he had come. and when he arrived, theworld beautifully sounding tree was in the middle of the flowery garden.Hitherto the flowery garden had been in good fame, but now the fame wasseven times greater, so that people came from seven worlds to look at thetree. and the report of it reached the king himself, who determined in hismind if he had not seen it yet he would now at least go to see it.As soon as the old witch divined his thought she put a powder in hiscoffee so that he became sick, and was not able to leave the room. thenshe stood before him without invitation, and said, "High king, as thyHighness is sick, I will go to see if the world  sounding tree is asbeautiful as reported, and will soon bring back word."The king in one way or another agreed to the old witch's proposal, and lether go to see the world beautifully sounding tree. She had barely put footin the flowery garden when the two children ran out to her to hear whatthe old woman would say this time."Beautiful children," said she, "beautiful is the garden of itself,beautiful is the sounding tree, but still seven times more beautiful wouldit be if the world sweetly speaking bird were to sing upon it.""What must I do?" asked the little boy."Nothing else," answered the old witch, "than this: In such and such aplace is an enchanted castle, and thence it would be necessary to bringthe world sweetly speaking bird."Then she went back. and from that hour the king's son could not remain athome, but planned to go for the world sweetly speaking bird. Therefore,parting with his sister amidst bitter tear shedding, he started throughthe kingdom and the world to bring home the sweetly speaking bird. but heenjoined on his sister that if the third day he were not at home, sheshould set out to seek him over a certain road,   and with that theking's son went his way.He journeyed and traveled across forty nine kingdoms to the firstenchanted castle, where there stood on guard a big hairy devil, who had aterribly large whip in his hand, to kill, without pity or mercy, every mangoing up or down.Now, the hairy devil attacked Yanoshka sharply and roughly, thus, "Whoart thou?""I, my lord elder brother.""Who art thou?" asked the devil again."I.""Art thou Yanoshka?""I am.""Why art thou here in this strange land, where even a bird does not go?""I am going for the world sweetly speaking bird. Hast thou heard of it, mylord elder brother?""What is the use in delay or denial? I have not indeed heard. But overthere lives my elder brother. if he knows nothing of it, then no one inthe world knows."Now the king's son came to the second enchanted castle. the second devilsent him to his eldest brother, the big lame devil.When Yanoshka came to the third castle, the devil asked, "Why art thouhere in this strange land, where even a bird does not go?""I am looking for the world sweetly speaking bird. Hast thou not heard ofit, lord elder brother, in thy world beautiful life?""Of course I have. it is here in this enchanted castle. Thou mayest takeit away if thou wilt listen to my word. if not, better thou hadst neverbeen born. For if thou wilt not observe my words, thou wilt never seeGod's bright sun again. I only wish to say: Here is a golden rod. take it,and with it strike the wall of the enchanted castle three times.Straightway the door will open before thee. pass in, run to the end of theglass corridor and across eight chambers. In the ninth chamber is theworld sweetly speaking bird in a rusty cage. Thou wilt find there everykind of beautiful and more beautiful golden birds, but look not at them,listen not to them, take no one of them, but take the sweetly speakingbird sitting sadly in the rusty cage. Snatch the cage in an instant, andrush from the enchanted castle as if thou hadst been shot from a cannon."The king's son took the golden rod and struck the wall of the enchantedcastle with it three times, and in a twinkle the door opened before him.The king's son then asked few questions. Whether it was permitted or nothe ran into the room in an instant. While he was running to the end of theglass corridor he was called by name, from the right to the left, to stop.It is true that he was frightened, but he paid no heed. He ran straight tothe first chamber. Every kind of flowers, more and more beautiful, were ingolden pots. but the king's son did not touch them. He ran to the secondchamber. In that were all kinds of swords and guns, but he did not choosefrom them. He entered the third, fourth, fifth, and in this way till hecame to the ninth chamber. The ninth chamber, as the devil had told him,was full of all kinds of golden and silver cages, and in themgolden feathered birds, more and more beautiful, were singing. but theworld sweetly speaking bird was drooping there sadly in a rusty cage, andwas not singing.As the world sweetly speaking bird was not golden feathered like theothers, it did not please the king's son, and he did not take it, butchose from among the many golden feathered birds the prettiest, and wishedto take that. but as he reached towards it, suddenly, in the twinkle of aneye, he was turned to stone, and the door of the stone wall closed beforehim.Now, the little princess every God given day spread the table for her goodbrother, but he did not come. Every God given evening she went out beforethe house and waited till nearly midnight. then she spread the bed forhim, but he did not lie in it. So the first day passed, and the second,and the third,   day after day, but still the dear brother came not.therefore the princess, crying and weeping, went out to look for herbrother.She journeyed and traveled upon his trail till she came to the firstenchanted castle, and the second, and at last the third.The devil there stood on guard, with a great whip like a chain, so as tostrike on the head, without pity or mercy, everyone going up or down. andhe shouted angrily at the little girl, " Who art thou? ""I.""Thou art Marishka?" For meanwhile, let it be said, this was the name ofthe king's son's sister."I am.""Why art thou traveling in this strange land, where not even a bird goes?""I am looking for my brother. Hast thou not heard of him, lord elderbrother?""Of course I have heard,   of course! He is in this enchanted castle,turned into stone. he had to be, for he would not obey me. Thou wilt gothat way, too, if thou wilt not hold to my word."Now the little girl took the golden rod from the devil, who told her whatto do with it, and struck the wall of the enchanted castle with it threetimes. The door opened before her in a twinkle, the princess ran in. butshe looked neither to the right nor the left. She ran straight to theninth chamber. there she took the rusty cage, struck her brother threetimes on the side with the rod, then ran as if shot from a cannon. And athousand fold was her luck that she did not delay an eye twinkle longer,for the stone wall door, as it was, cut the edge of her skirt off when itclosed. The princess had barely come out of the enchanted castle when sheheard behind her frightful thundering, hammering and blowing, swearing andcursing, with threats.They shouted after her, "Wait, thou! This and that kind of wretch, itwill soon be bitter for thee!"But she did not turn to them. she ran like a hunted deer till she reachedhome. Who was waiting for her there? No one else but her dear brother.The brother and sister then put up the sweetly speaking bird on theworld beautifully sounding tree, and the sweetly speaking bird spoke, sangmore sweetly than any cithara, so that whoever heard it became ten yearsyounger.If the flowery garden had been famous before, it now stood in seven timesgreater fame, so that from seven kingdoms the people came to look at it.and the king, hearing of the fair fame of the flowery garden, resolved inhis mind that, though he had not gone yet, he would go to see it now. Theold witch barely divined this intention of the king when she gave himpowders in black coffee, from which the king became so sick that thistime, too, his visit to the beautiful garden came to nothing.And then the old woman, without invitation, stood before him, and said,"High king, thou hast such a great desire to see the flowery garden, Iwill go at once, and bring back word if its beauty is as great as itsfame."The king agreed, and the old woman went to see the flowery garden. She hadbarely put foot in it when the two children ran out to meet her, receivedher very cordially, and did not know where to seat her."Beautiful children," began the old sinner, "the marble palace isbeautiful, the flowery garden is beautiful, the world sweetly speakingbird is beautiful. but the flowery garden would be still more beautiful ifthe silver lake were flowing in it, and in the lake golden fish wereplaying.""What must I do to get the lake?" asked the king's son."Only this," answered the old skeleton."In a certain place, in an enchanted castle, is the world silver lake, andin it the world golden fish. it is only necessary to go for the silverlake, for the golden fish will come in it. All that is needed is to bringthe lake."Then the old woman took leave of the pair pleasantly, and went home. Butthe king's son from that day had no rest, so he took leave of his dearsister, and went out into the world for the silver lake. He traveled andjourneyed across forty nine kingdoms, and the Operentsia Sea, till he cameto the first enchanted castle.A devil was guarding there, who sent him to his elder brother, and he tohis eldest.The king's son arrived at the third enchanted palace. A devil stood guardthere, with an enormous knotty club, to hit every man going up or down,without mercy or pity."God give thee good evening, my lord elder brother.""God receive thee, Yanoshka. whither art thou faring in this strange land,where not even a bird goes?""I am looking for the world silver lake. Hast thou not heard of it, lordelder brother?""Of course I have heard,   of course. it is here in this enchantedcastle. But, my younger brother, thou wilt have to tie up thy drawers wellif 't is thy wish to take that away. for if thou dost not obey my word, Itell thee, on my true soul, that thou wilt reach Pilate by supper time. Iwish to say this: Here is a golden rod. strike the side of the enchantedpalace with it, and suddenly the door will open before thee, run instraight to the garden. Thou wilt hear thy name called, but listen not.Every kind of beautiful maiden will come before thee, offering meat anddrink. but eat not, neither drink. Thou wilt find on the way every kind ofrich thing,   gold, silver, diamonds,   but touch nothing. Thenevery kind of disgusting snake and toad will come out, but be not afraid.run straight to the silver lake, which flows in the garden, run around itthree times towards home, and then run out as thou didst go in"Well, the king's son took the golden rod, struck the side of the enchantedcastle three times, and the door opened before him. scarcely had he putfoot inside when maidens called him by name. "This way, this way,Yanoshka! Eat, drink, with relish, Yanoshka! This way, Yanoshka, myembracing two arms are open to thee, run no farther!"The king's son, as if deaf, did not listen, but ran farther. Then maidensmore and more beautiful came before him. Some sprang at him, dangled theirgolden hair in his face. the king's son did not stop, but struck at themrudely, rushing on. He had barely left the maidens when he fell on topiles of treasure thrown in his way: beaten gold was piled high, andmilk white silver coin,   here every kind of diamond ring, there swordsset in diamonds. but the king's son touched nothing, and ran on. Thenevery kind of crawling, creeping thing swarmed around him,   herehissing snakes, there warty toads. Yanoshka looked not under his feet, butran till he came to the silver lake, around which he rushed three times,and went out as he had come. A thousand fold was his fortune, for had hebeen an instant later the stone wall would have closed before him. as itwas it took the heel off his boot, but he cared nothing for that. He lefthis boots there and ran home barefoot. when he reached home the silverlake was already flowing through the flowery garden, and in it all kindsof precious golden fish were jumping.Hitherto the marble palace and the flowery garden with the sounding treeand the sweetly speaking bird had been in fair fame, but now, when thesilver lake was flowing through the garden, and golden fish playing in it,now I say their fame spoke to the seven worlds, and people came to look atthem. When this reached the ears of the king he resolved that he wouldneither eat nor drink till he saw the marble palace with all its wonders.Though the old witch offered him black coffee repeatedly, the king did nottake it. but sitting in the golden carriage with his wife, he drove to seethe flowery garden.Scarcely had the king and queen entered the flowery garden when thebrother and sister ran out before them, panting, and kissed their hands."Oh, father, this little girl is like thee!" cried the queen. "She is thycarved second!""And the little boy looks like thee," answered the king.Well, the king and the queen went around the garden in order, and theycould not do justice to its beauty. when they saw the sounding tree andthe sweetly speaking bird, they clapped their hands. The boy went up in amoment on the sounding tree, plucked from it a couple of golden apples,gave one to the king and the other to the queen, who could not praisesufficiently his kindness. Then the king and queen looked at the silverlake and the golden fish in it. they visited the marble palace, and wentfrom chamber to chamber till they had gone through seven in order.The king and queen were unable to praise sufficiently the beauty of therooms. but when they came to the most beautiful of all, the king foundthis to say, speaking speech, " Well, my little servant, wilt thou notanswer a question of mine?""And what is it?" asked the prince."I should like to know why that picture is covered with velvet, and whatit depicts."One word is not much, but the king's little son did not say that much.speechless he drew the velvet covering aside. The king and queen wereamazed, and knew their own children, whom they had never seen before. Oneembraced one of them, and the other the other. they could not speak, butthey wept and laughed, and then the world sounding tree and the sweetlyspeaking bird were heard.Great was the rejoicing of every kind, but sad grew the old sinner whenthe king seized her, made her fast to a tree, and piled up beneath her afire of sulfur.