Far, far away, beyond all sorts of countries, seas and rivers, therestood a splendid city where lived King Archidej, who was as good as hewas rich and handsome. His great army was made up of men ready to obeyhis slightest wish. he owned forty times forty cities, and in each cityhe had ten palaces with silver doors, golden roofs, and crystal windows.His council consisted of the twelve wisest men in the country, whoselong beards flowed down over their breasts, each of whom was as learnedas a whole college. This council always told the king the exact truth.Now the king had everything to make him happy, but he did not enjoyanything because he could not find a bride to his mind.One day, as he sat in his palace looking out to sea, a great ship sailedinto the harbour and several merchants came on shore. Said the king tohimself: 'These people have travelled far and beheld many lands. I willask them if they have seen any princess who is as clever and as handsomeas I am.'So he ordered the merchants to be brought before him, and when they camehe said: 'You have travelled much and visited many wonders. I wish toask you a question, and I beg you to answer truthfully.'Have you anywhere seen or heard of the daughter of an emperor, king,or a prince, who is as clever and as handsome as I am, and who would beworthy to be my wife and the queen of my country?'The merchants considered for some time. At last the eldest of them said:'I have heard that across many seas, in the Island of Busan, there is amighty king, whose daughter, the Princess Helena, is so lovely that shecan certainly not be plainer than your Majesty, and so clever that thewisest greybeard cannot guess her riddles.''Is the island far off, and which is the way to it?''It is not near,' was the answer. 'The journey would take ten years, andwe do not know the way. And even if we did, what use would that be? Theprincess is no bride for you.''How dare you say so?' cried the king angrily.'Your Majesty must pardon us. but just think for a moment. Should yousend an envoy to the island he will take ten years to get there and tenmore to return twenty years in all. Will not the princess have grownold in that time and have lost all her beauty?'The king reflected gravely. Then he thanked the merchants, gave themleave to trade in his country without paying any duties, and dismissedthem.After they were gone the king remained deep in thought. He felt puzzledand anxious. so he decided to ride into the country to distract hismind, and sent for his huntsmen and falconers. The huntsmen blew theirhorns, the falconers took their hawks on their wrists, and off they allset out across country till they came to a green hedge. On the otherside of the hedge stretched a great field of maize as far as the eyecould reach, and the yellow ears swayed to and fro in the gentle breezelike a rippling sea of gold.The king drew rein and admired the field. 'Upon my word,' said he,'whoever dug and planted it must be good workmen. If all the fields inmy kingdom were as well cared for as this, there would be more breadthan my people could eat.' And he wished to know to whom the fieldbelonged.Off rushed all his followers at once to do his bidding, and found anice, tidy farmhouse, in front of which sat seven peasants, lunchingon rye bread and drinking water. They wore red shirts bound with goldbraid, and were so much alike that one could hardly tell one fromanother.The messengers asked: 'Who owns this field of golden maize?' And theseven brothers answered: 'The field is ours.''And who are you?''We are King Archidej's labourers.'These answers were repeated to the king, who ordered the brothers tobe brought before him at once. On being asked who they were, the eldestsaid, bowing low:'We, King Archidej, are your labourers, children of one father andmother, and we all have the same name, for each of us is called Simon.Our father taught us to be true to our king, and to till the ground,and to be kind to our neighbours. He also taught each of us a differenttrade which he thought might be useful to us, and he bade us not neglectour mother earth, which would be sure amply to repay our labour.'The king was pleased with the honest peasant, and said: 'You have donewell, good people, in planting your field, and now you have a goldenharvest. But I should like each of you to tell me what special tradesyour father taught you.''My trade, O king!' said the first Simon, 'is not an easy one. If youwill give me some workmen and materials I will build you a great whitepillar that shall reach far above the clouds.''Very good,' replied the king. 'And you, Simon the second, what is yourtrade?''Mine, your Majesty, needs no great cleverness. When my brother hasbuilt the pillar I can mount it, and from the top, far above the clouds,I can see what is happening: in every country under the sun.''Good,' said the king. 'and Simon the third?''My work is very simple, sire. You have many ships built by learned men,with all sorts of new and clever improvements. If you wish it I willbuild you quite a simple boat one, two, three, and it's done! But myplain little home made ship is not grand enough for a king. Where otherships take a year, mine makes the voyage in a day, and where they wouldrequire ten years mine will do the distance in a week.''Good,' said the king again. 'and what has Simon the fourth learnt?''My trade, O king, is really of no importance. Should my brother buildyou a ship, then let me embark in it. If we should be pursued by anenemy I can seize our boat by the prow and sink it to the bottom of thesea. When the enemy has sailed off, I can draw it up to the top again.''That is very clever of you,' answered the king. 'and what does Simonthe fifth do?''My work, your Majesty, is mere smith's work. Order me to build a smithyand I will make you a cross bow, but from which neither the eagle in thesky nor the wild beast in the forest is safe. The bolt hits whatever theeye sees.''That sounds very useful,' said the king. 'And now, Simon the sixth,tell me your trade.''Sire, it is so simple I am almost ashamed to mention it. If my brotherhits any creature I catch it quicker than any dog can. If it falls intothe water I pick it up out of the greatest depths, and if it is in adark forest I can find it even at midnight.'The king was much pleased with the trades and talk of the six brothers,and said: 'Thank you, good people. your father did well to teach you allthese things. Now follow me to the town, as I want to see what you cando. I need such people as you about me. but when harvest time comes Iwill send you home with royal presents.'The brothers bowed and said: 'As the king wills.' Suddenly the kingremembered that he had not questioned the seventh Simon, so he turned tohim and said: 'Why are you silent? What is your handicraft?'And the seventh Simon answered: 'I have no handicraft, O king. I havelearnt nothing. I could not manage it. And if I do know how to doanything it is not what might properly be called a real trade it israther a sort of performance. but it is one which no one not the kinghimself must watch me doing, and I doubt whether this performance ofmine would please your Majesty.''Come, come,' cried the king. 'I will have no excuses, what is thistrade?''First, sire, give me your royal word that you will not kill me when Ihave told you. Then you shall hear.''So be it, then. I give you my royal word.'Then the seventh Simon stepped back a little, cleared his throat, andsaid: 'My trade, King Archidej, is of such a kind that the man whofollows it in your kingdom generally loses his life and has no hopes ofpardon. There is only one thing I can do really well, and that is tosteal, and to hide the smallest scrap of anything I have stolen. Notthe deepest vault, even if its lock were enchanted, could prevent mystealing anything out of it that I wished to have.'When the king heard this he fell into a passion. 'I will not pardonyou, you rascal,' he cried. 'I will shut you up in my deepest dungeon onbread and water till you have forgotten such a trade. Indeed, it wouldbe better to put you to death at once, and I've a good mind to do so.''Don't kill me, O king! I am really not as bad as you think. Why, had Ichosen, I could have robbed the royal treasury, have bribed your judgesto let me off, and built a white marble palace with what was left.But though I know how to steal I don't do it. You yourself asked me mytrade. If you kill me you will break your royal word.''Very well,' said the king, 'I will not kill you. I pardon you. But fromthis hour you shall be shut up in a dark dungeon. Here, guards! awaywith him to the prison. But you six Simons follow me and be assured ofmy royal favour.'So the six Simons followed the king. The seventh Simon was seized by theguards, who put him in chains and threw him in prison with only breadand water for food. Next day the king gave the first Simon carpenters,masons, smiths and labourers, with great stores of iron, mortar, and thelike, and Simon began to build. And he built his great white pillarfar, far up into the clouds, as high as the nearest stars. but the otherstars were higher still.Then the second Simon climbed up the pillar and saw and heard all thatwas going on through the whole world. When he came down he had all sortsof wonderful things to tell. How one king was marching in battle againstanother, and which was likely to be the victor. How, in another place,great rejoicings were going on, while in a third people were dying offamine. In fact there was not the smallest event going on over the earththat was hidden from him.Next the third Simon began. He stretched out his arms, once, twice,thrice, and the wonder ship was ready. At a sign from the king it waslaunched, and floated proudly and safely like a bird on the waves.Instead of ropes it had wires for rigging, and musicians played on themwith fiddle bows and made lovely music. As the ship swam about, thefourth Simon seized the prow with his strong hand, and in a moment itwas gone sunk to the bottom of the sea. An hour passed, and then theship floated again, drawn up by Simon's left hand, while in his right hebrought a gigantic fish from the depth of the ocean for the royal table.Whilst this was going on the fifth Simon had built his forge andhammered out his iron, and when the king returned from the harbour themagic cross bow was made.His Majesty went out into an open field at once, looked up into the skyand saw, far, far away, an eagle flying up towards the sun and lookinglike a little speck.'Now,' said the king, 'if you can shoot that bird I will reward you.'Simon only smiled. he lifted his cross bow, took aim, fired, and theeagle fell. As it was falling the sixth Simon ran with a dish, caughtthe bird before it fell to earth and brought it to the king.'Many thanks, my brave lads,' said the king. 'I see that each of you isindeed a master of his trade. You shall be richly rewarded. But now restand have your dinner.'The six Simons bowed and went to dinner. But they had hardly begunbefore a messenger came to say that the king wanted to see them. Theyobeyed at once and found him surrounded by all his court and men ofstate.'Listen, my good fellows,' cried the king, as soon as he saw them. 'Hearwhat my wise counsellors have thought of. As you, Simon the second,can see the whole world from the top of the great pillar, I want you toclimb up and to see and hear. For I am told that, far away, across manyseas, is the great kingdom of the Island of Busan, and that the daughterof the king is the beautiful Princess Helena.'Off ran the second Simon and clambered quickly up the pillar. He gazedaround, listened on all sides, and then slid down to report to the king.'Sire, I have obeyed your orders. Far away I saw the Island of Busan.The king is a mighty monarch, but full of pride, harsh and cruel. Hesits on his throne and declares that no prince or king on earth is goodenough for his lovely daughter, that he will give her to none, andthat if any king asks for her hand he will declare war against him anddestroy his kingdom.''Has the king of Busan a great army?' asked King Archidej. 'is hiscountry far off?''As far as I could judge,' replied Simon, 'it would take you nearly tenyears in fair weather to sail there. But if the weather were stormywe might say twelve. I saw the army being reviewed. It is not so verylarge a hundred thousand men at arms and a hundred thousand knights.Besides these, he has a strong bodyguard and a good many cross bowmen.Altogether you may say another hundred thousand, and there is a pickedbody of heroes who reserve themselves for great occasions requiringparticular courage.'The king sat for some time lost in thought. At last he said to thenobles and courtiers standing round: 'I am determined to marry thePrincess Helena, but how shall I do it?'The nobles, courtiers and counsellors said nothing, but tried to hidebehind each other. Then the third Simon said:'Pardon me, your Majesty, if I offer my advice. You wish to go to theIsland of Busan? What can be easier? In my ship you will get there in aweek instead of in ten years. But ask your council to advise you whatto do when you arrive in one word, whether you will win the princesspeacefully or by war?'But the wise men were as silent as ever.The king frowned, and was about to say something sharp, when the CourtFool pushed his way to the front and said: 'Dear me, what are all youclever people so puzzled about? The matter is quite clear. As it seemsit will not take long to reach the island why not send the seventhSimon? He will steal the fair maiden fast enough, and then the king,her father, may consider how he is going to bring his army over here itwill take him ten years to do it!  no less! What do you think of myplan?''What do I think? Why, that your idea is capital, and you shall berewarded for it. Come, guards, hurry as fast as you can and bring theseventh Simon before me.'Not many minutes later, Simon the seventh stood before the king, whoexplained to him what he wished done, and also that to steal for thebenefit of his king and country was by no means a wrong thing, though itwas very wrong to steal for his own advantage.The youngest Simon, who looked very pale and hungry, only nodded hishead.'Come,' said the king, 'tell me truly. Do you think you could steal thePrincess Helena?''Why should I not steal her, sire? The thing is easy enough. Let mybrother's ship be laden with rich stuffs, brocades, Persian carpets,pearls and jewels. Send me in the ship. Give me my four middle brothersas companions, and keep the two others as hostages.'When the king heard these words his heart became filled with longing,and he ordered all to be done as Simon wished. Every one ran about to dohis bidding. and in next to no time the wonder ship was laden and readyto start.The five Simons took leave of the king, went on board, and had no soonerset sail than they were almost out of sight. The ship cut through thewaters like a falcon through the air, and just a week after startingsighted the Island of Busan. The coast appeared to be strongly guarded,and from afar the watchman on a high tower called out: 'Halt and anchor!Who are you? Where do you come from, and what do you want?'The seventh Simon answered from the ship: 'We are peaceful people. Wecome from the country of the great and good King Archidej, and we bringforeign wares rich brocades, carpets, and costly jewels, which we wishto show to your king and the princess. We desire to trade to sell, tobuy, and to exchange.'The brothers launched a small boat, took some of their valuable goodswith them, rowed to shore and went up to the palace. The princess satin a rose red room, and when she saw the brothers coming near she calledher nurse and other women, and told them to inquire who and what thesepeople were, and what they wanted.The seventh Simon answered the nurse: 'We come from the country of thewise and good King Archidej,' said he, 'and we have brought all sortsof goods for sale. We trust the king of this country may condescendto welcome us, and to let his servants take charge of our wares. If heconsiders them worthy to adorn his followers we shall be content.'This speech was repeated to the princess, who ordered the brothers tobe brought to the red room at once. They bowed respectfully to her anddisplayed some splendid velvets and brocades, and opened cases of pearlsand precious stones. Such beautiful things had never been seen in theisland, and the nurse and waiting women stood bewildered by all themagnificence. They whispered together that they had never beheldanything like it. The princess too saw and wondered, and her eyes couldnot weary of looking at the lovely things, or her fingers of strokingthe rich soft stuffs, and of holding up the sparkling jewels to thelight.'Fairest of princesses,' said Simon. 'Be pleased to order yourwaiting maids to accept the silks and velvets, and let your women trimtheir head dresses with the jewels. these are no special treasures.But permit me to say that they are as nothing to the many colouredtapestries, the gorgeous stones and ropes of pearls in our ship. We didnot like to bring more with us, not knowing what your royal taste mightbe. but if it seems good to you to honour our ship with a visit, youmight condescend to choose such things as were pleasing in your eyes.'This polite speech pleased the princess very much. She went to theking and said: 'Dear father, some merchants have arrived with the mostsplendid wares. Pray allow me to go to their ship and choose out what Ilike.'The king thought and thought, frowned hard and rubbed his ear. At lasthe gave consent, and ordered out his royal yacht, with 100 cross bows,100 knights, and 1,000 soldiers, to escort the Princess Helena.Off sailed the yacht with the princess and her escort. The brothersSimon came on board to conduct the princess to their ship, and, led bythe brothers and followed by her nurse and other women, she crossed thecrystal plank from one vessel to another.The seventh Simon spread out his goods, and had so many curiousand interesting tales to tell about them, that the princess forgoteverything else in looking and listening, so that she did not know thatthe fourth Simon had seized the prow of the ship, and that all of asudden it had vanished from sight, and was racing along in the depths ofthe sea.The crew of the royal yacht shouted aloud, the knights stood still withterror, the soldiers were struck dumb and hung their heads. There wasnothing to be done but to sail back and tell the king of his loss.How he wept and stormed! 'Oh, light of my eyes,' he sobbed. 'I am indeedpunished for my pride. I thought no one good enough to be your husband,and now you are lost in the depths of the sea, and have left me alone!As for all of you who saw this thing away with you! Let them be put inirons and lock them up in prison, whilst I think how I can best put themto death!'Whilst the King of Busan was raging and lamenting in this fashion,Simon's ship was swimming like any fish under the sea, and when theisland was well out of sight he brought it up to the surface again. Atthat moment the princess recollected herself. 'Nurse,' said she, 'wehave been gazing at these wonders only too long. I hope my father won'tbe vexed at our delay.'She tore herself away and stepped on deck. Neither the yacht nor theisland was in sight! Helena wrung her hands and beat her breast. Thenshe changed herself into a white swan and flew off. But the fifth Simonseized his bow and shot the swan, and the sixth Simon did not let itfall into the water but caught it in the ship, and the swan turned intoa silver fish, but Simon lost no time and caught the fish, when, quickas thought, the fish turned into a black mouse and ran about the ship.It darted towards a hole, but before it could reach it Simon sprang uponit more swiftly than any cat, and then the little mouse turned once moreinto the beautiful Princess Helena.Early one morning King Archidej sat thoughtfully at his window gazingout to sea. His heart was sad and he would neither eat nor drink. Histhoughts were full of the Princess Helena, who was as lovely as a dream.Is that a white gull he sees flying towards the shore, or is it a sail?No, it is no gull, it is the wonder ship flying along with billowingsails. Its flags wave, the fiddlers play on the wire rigging, the anchoris thrown out and the crystal plank laid from the ship to the pier. Thelovely Helena steps across the plank. She shines like the sun, and thestars of heaven seem to sparkle in her eyes.Up sprang King Archidej in haste: 'Hurry, hurry,' he cried. 'Let ushasten to meet her! Let the bugles sound and the joy bells be rung!'And the whole Court swarmed with courtiers and servants. Golden carpetswere laid down and the great gates thrown open to welcome the princess.King Archidej went out himself, took her by the hand and led her intothe royal apartments.'Madam,' said he, 'the fame of your beauty had reached me, but I had notdared to expect such loveliness. Still I will not keep you here againstyour will. If you wish it, the wonder ship shall take you back to yourfather and your own country. but if you will consent to stay here, thenreign over me and my country as our queen.'What more is there to tell? It is not hard to guess that the princesslistened to the king's wooing, and their betrothal took place with greatpomp and rejoicings.The brothers Simon were sent again to the Island of Busan with a letterto the king from his daughter to invite him to their wedding. And thewonder ship arrived at the Island of Busan just as all the knights andsoldiers who had escorted the princess were being led out to execution.Then the seventh Simon cried out from the ship: 'Stop! stop! I bring aletter from the Princess Helena!'The King of Busan read the letter over and over again, and ordered theknights and soldiers to be set free. He entertained King Archidej'sambassadors hospitably, and sent his blessing to his daughter, but hecould not be brought to attend the wedding.When the wonder ship got home King Archidej and Princess Helena wereenchanted with the news it brought.The king sent for the seven Simons. 'A thousand thanks to you, my bravefellows,' he cried. 'Take what gold, silver, and precious stones youwill out of my treasury. Tell me if there is anything else you wish forand I will give it you, my good friends. Do you wish to be made nobles,or to govern towns? Only speak.'Then the eldest Simon bowed and said: 'We are plain folk, your Majesty,and understand simple things best. What figures should we cut as noblesor governors? Nor do we desire gold. We have our fields which give usfood, and as much money as we need. If you wish to reward us then grantthat our land may be free of taxes, and of your goodness pardon theseventh Simon. He is not the first who has been a thief by trade and hewill certainly not be the last.''So be it,' said the king. 'your land shall be free of all taxes, andSimon the seventh is pardoned.'Then the king gave each brother a goblet of wine and invited them to thewedding feast. And what a feast that was!