As to my third brother (the blind man, Baba), who was also surnameduffeh, fate and destiny impelled him one day to a largehouse, and he knocked at the door, hoping that its master would answerhim, and that he might beg of him a trifle. The owner called out, Who isat the door? but my brother answered not. and then heard him call witha loud voice, Who is this? Still, however, he returned him no answer.and he heard the sounds of his footsteps approaching until he came tothe door and opened it, when he said to him, What dost thou desire? Mybrother answered, Something for the sake of God, whose name beexalted! Art thou blind? said the man. and my brother answered,Yes. Then give me thy hand rejoined the master of the house. so mybrother stretched forth to him his hand, and the man took him into thehouse, and led him up from stair case to stair case until he hadascended to the highest platform of the roof: my brother thinking thathe was going to give him some food or money: and when he had arrived atthis highest terrace, of his house, the owner said, What dost thoudesire, O blind man! I desire something, he answered again, for thesake of God, whose name be exalted! May God, replied the man, open tothee some other way! What is this! exclaimed my brother: couldst thounot tell me so when I was below? Thou vilest of the vile! retorted theother: why didst thou not ask of me something for the sake of God whenthou heardest my voice the first time, when thou wast knocking at thedoor? What then, said my brother, dost thou mean to do to me? The manof the house answered, I have nothing to give thee. Then take me downthe stairs, said my brother. The man replied, The way is before thee. Somy brother made his way to the stairs, and continued descending untilthere remained, between him and the door, twenty steps, when his footslipped and he fell, and, rolling down, broke his head.He went forth, not knowing whither to direct his steps, and presentlythere met him two blind men, his companions, who said to him, What hathhappened to thee this day? My brother, therefore, related to them theevent that had just befallen him: and then said to them, O my brothers,I desire to take a portion of the money now in our possession, to expendit upon myself. Now the owner of the house which he had just beforeentered had followed him to acquaint himself with his proceedings, andwithout my brother's knowledge he walked behind him until the latterentered his abode. when he went in after him, still unknown. My brotherthen sat waiting for his companions. and when they came in to him, hesaid to them, Shut the door, and search the room, lest any stranger havefollowed us. When the intruder, therefore, heard what he said, he arose,and clung to a rope that was attached to the ceiling. and the blind menwent feeling about the whole of the chamber, and, finding no one,returned and seated themselves by my brother, and brought forth theirmoney, and counted it. and lo, it was more than ten thousand pieces ofsilver. Having done this, they laid it in a corner of the room, and eachof them took of the surplus of that sum as much as he wanted, and theyburied the ten thousand pieces of silver in the earth. after which, theyplaced before themselves some food, and sat eating. but my brother heardthe sound of a stranger by his side, and said to his friends, Is there astranger among us? Then stretching forth his hand, it grasped the handof the intruder. whereupon he cried out to his companions, saying, Hereis a stranger! and they fell upon him with blows until they were tired,when they shouted out, O Muslims! a thief hath come in uponus, and desireth to take our property! and immediately a number ofpersons collected around them.Upon this, the stranger whom they accused of being a thief shut hiseyes, feigned to be blind like themselves, so that no one who saw himdoubted him to be so. and shouted, O Muslims! I demand protection ofAllah and the Sulan! I demand protection of Allah and the Walee! Idemand protection of Allah and the Emeer! for I have importantinformation to give to the Emeer! and before they could collect theirthoughts, the officers of the Walee surrounded them and took them all,including my brother, and conducted them before their master. The Waleesaid, What is your story? and the stranger replied, Hear my words, OWalee. the truth of our case will not become known to thee but by meansof beating. and if thou wilt, begin by beating me before mycompanions. The Walee therefore said, Throw down this man, and flog himwith whips: and accordingly they threw him down and flogged him. andwhen the stripes tortured him, he opened one of his eyes. and after theyhad continued the flogging a little longer, he opened his other eye.upon which the Walee exclaimed, What meaneth this conduct, O thouvillain? Grant me indemnity, replied the man, and I will acquaintthee: and the Walee having granted his request, he said, We fourpretend that we are blind, and, intruding among other people, entertheir houses, and see their women, and employ stratagems to corruptthem, and to obtain money from them. We have acquired, by these means,vast gain, amounting to ten thousand pieces of silver. and I said to mycompanions, Give me my due, two thousand and five hundred. and they roseagainst me and beat me, and took my property. I beg protection,therefore, of Allah and of thee. and thou art more deserving of my sharethan they. If thou desire to know the truth of that which I have said,flog each of them more than thou hast flogged me, and he will open hiseyes.So the Walee immediately gave orders to flog them, and the first of themwho suffered was my brother. They continued beating him until he almostdied. when the Walee said to them, O ye scoundrels! do ye deny thegracious gift of God, feigning yourselves to be blind? My brotherexclaimed, Allah! Allah! Allah! there is none among us who seeth! Theythen threw him down again, and ceased not to beat him until he becameinsensible, when the Walee said, Leave him until he shall haverecovered, and then give him a third flogging: and in the meantime, hegave orders to flog his companions, to give each of them more than threehundred stripes. while the seeing man said to them, Open your eyes, orthey will flog you again after this time. Then addressing himself to theWalee, he said, Send with me some person to bring thee the property. forthese men will not open their eyes, fearing to be disgraced before thespectators. And the Walee sent with him a man, who brought him themoney. and he took it, and gave to the informer, out of it, twothousand and five hundred pieces of silver, according to the share whichhe claimed, in spite of the others (retaining the rest), and banishedfrom the city my brother and the two other men. but I went forth, OPrince of the Faithful, and, having overtaken my brother, asked himrespecting his sufferings. and he acquainted me with that which I haverelated unto thee. I then brought him back secretly into the city, andallotted him a supply of food and drink as long as he lived.The Khaleefeh laughed at my story, and said, Give him a present, and lethim go: but I replied, I will receive nothing until I have declared tothe Prince of the Faithful what happened to the rest of my brothers, andmade it manifest to him that I am a man of few words: whereupon theKhaleefeh said, Crack our ears, then, with thy ridiculous stories, andcontinue to us thy disclosure of vices and misdeeds. So I proceededthus: 