Far way, in a very hot country, there once lived a man and woman who hadtwo children, a son named Koane and a daughter called Thakane.Early in the morning and late in the evenings the parents worked hardin the fields, resting, when the sun was high, under the shade of sometree. While they were absent the little girl kept house alone, for herbrother always got up before the dawn, when the air was fresh and cool,and drove out the cattle to the sweetest patches of grass he could find.One day, when Koane had slept later than usual, his father and motherwent to their work before him, and there was only Thakane to be seenbusy making the bread for supper.'Thakane,' he said, 'I am thirsty. Give me a drink from the treeKoumongoe, which has the best milk in the world.''Oh, Koane,' cried his sister, 'you know that we are forbidden to touchthat tree. What would father say when he came home? For he would be sureto know.''Nonsense,' replied Koane, 'there is so much milk in Koumongoe that hewill never miss a little. If you won't give it to me, I sha'n't take thecattle out. They will just have to stay all day in the hut, and you knowthat they will starve.' And he turned from her in a rage, and sat downin the corner.After a while Thakane said to him: 'It is getting hot, had you betterdrive out the cattle now?'But Koane only answered sulkily: 'I told you I am not going to drivethem out at all. If I have to do without milk, they shall do withoutgrass.'Thakane did not know what to do. She was afraid to disobey her parents,who would most likely beat her, yet the beasts would be sure to sufferif they were kept in, and she would perhaps be beaten for that too. Soat last she took an axe and a tiny earthen bowl, she cut a very smallhole in the side of Koumongoe, and out gushed enough milk to fill thebowl.'Here is the milk you wanted,' said she, going up to Koane, who wasstill sulking in his corner.'What is the use of that?' grumbled Koane. 'why, there is not enough todrown a fly. Go and get me three times as much!'Trembling with fright, Thakane returned to the tree, and struck it asharp blow with the axe. In an instant there poured forth such a streamof milk that it ran like a river into the hut.'Koane! Koane!' cried she, 'come and help me to plug up the hole. Therewill be no milk left for our father and mother.' But Koane could notstop it any more than Thakane, and soon the milk was flowing through thehut downhill towards their parents in the fields below.The man saw a white stream a long way off, and guessed what hadhappened.'Wife, wife,' he called loudly to the woman, who was working at a littledistance: 'Do you see Koumongoe running fast down the hill? That is somemischief of the children's, I am sure. I must go home and find out whatis the matter.' And they both threw down their hoes and hurried to theside of Koumongoe.Kneeling on the grass, the man and his wife made a cup of their handsand drank the milk from it. And no sooner had they done this, thanKoumongoe flowed back again up the hill, and entered the hut.'Thakane,' said the parents, severely, when they reached home pantingfrom the heat of the sun, 'what have you been doing? Why did Koumongoecome to us in the fields instead of staying in the garden?''It was Koane's fault,' answered Thakane. 'He would not take the cattleto feed until he drank some of the milk from Koumongoe. So, as I did notknow what else to do, I gave it to him.'The father listened to Thakane's words, but made no answer. Instead,he went outside and brought in two sheepskins, which he stained redand sent for a blacksmith to forge some iron rings. The rings were thenpassed over Thakane's arms and legs and neck, and the skins fastened onher before and behind. When all was ready, the man sent for his servantsand said:'I am going to get rid of Thakane.''Get rid of your only daughter?' they answered, in surprise. 'But why?''Because she has eaten what she ought not to have eaten. She has touchedthe sacred tree which belongs to her mother and me alone.' And, turninghis back, he called to Thakane to follow him, and they went down theroad which led to the dwelling of an ogre.They were passing along some fields where the corn was ripening, when arabbit suddenly sprang out at their feet, and standing on its hind legs,it sang:Why do you give to the ogre Your child, so fair, so fair?'You had better ask her,' replied the man, 'she is old enough to giveyou an answer.'Then, in her turn, Thakane sang:I gave Koumongoe to Koane, Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts. Forwithout Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows: Without Koumongoethey would starve in the hut. That was why I gave him the Koumongoe ofmy father.And when the rabbit heard that, he cried: 'Wretched man! it is you whomthe ogre should eat, and not your beautiful daughter.'But the father paid no heed to what the rabbit said, and only walked onthe faster, bidding Thakane to keep close behind him. By and by they metwith a troop of great deer, called elands, and they stopped when theysaw Thakane and sang:Why do you give to the ogre Your child, so fair, so fair?'You had better ask her, replied the man, 'she is old enough to give youan answer.'Then, in her turn, Thakane sang:I gave Koumongoe to Koane, Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts. Forwithout Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows: Without Koumongoethey would starve in the hut. That was why I gave him the Koumongoe ofmy father.And the elands all cried: 'Wretched man! it is you whom the ogre shouldeat, and not your beautiful daughter.'By this time it was nearly dark, and the father said they could travelno further that night, and must go to sleep where they were. Thakane wasthankful indeed when she heard this, for she was very tired, and foundthe two skins fastened round her almost too heavy to carry. So, in spiteof her dread of the ogre, she slept till dawn, when her father woke her,and told her roughly that he was ready to continue their journey.Crossing the plain, the girl and her father passed a herd of gazellesfeeding. They lifted their heads, wondering who was out so early, andwhen they caught sight of Thakane, they sang:Why do you give to the ogre Your child, so fair, so fair?'You had better ask her, replied the man, 'she is old enough to answerfor herself.'Then, in her turn, Thakane sang:I gave Koumongoe to Koane, Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts. Forwithout Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows: Without Koumongoethey would starve in the hut. That was why I gave him the Koumongoe ofmy father.And the gazelles all cried: 'Wretched man! it is you whom the ogreshould eat, and not your beautiful daughter.'At last they arrived at the village where the ogre lived, and they wentstraight to his hut. He was nowhere to be seen, but in his place was hisson Masilo, who was not an ogre at all, but a very polite young man. Heordered his servants to bring a pile of skins for Thakane to sit on, buttold her father he must sit on the ground. Then, catching sight of thegirl's face, which she had kept down, he was struck by its beauty, andput the same question that the rabbit, and the elands, and the gazelleshad done.Thakane answered him as before, and he instantly commanded that sheshould be taken to the hut of his mother, and placed under her care,while the man should be led to his father. Directly the ogre saw him hebade the servant throw him into the great pot which always stood readyon the fire, and in five minutes he was done to a turn. After that theservant returned to Masilo and related all that had happened.Now Masilo had fallen in loved with Thakane the moment he saw her. Atfirst he did not know what to make of this strange feeling, for all hislife he had hated women, and had refused several brides whom his parentshad chosen for him. However, they were so anxious that he should marry,that they willingly accepted Thakane as their daughter in law, thoughshe did bring any marriage portion with her.After some time a baby was born to her, and Thakane thought it was themost beautiful baby that ever was seen. But when her mother in law sawit was a girl, she wrung her hands and wept, saying:'O miserable mother! Miserable child! Alas for you! why were you not aboy!'Thakane, in great surprise, asked the meaning of her distress. and theold woman told her that it was the custom in that country that all thegirls who were born should be given to the ogre to eat.Then Thakane clasped the baby tightly in her arms, and cried:'But it is not the customer in MY country! There, when children die,they are buried in the earth. No one shall take my baby from me.'That night, when everyone in the hut was asleep, Thakane rose, andcarrying her baby on her back, went down to a place where the riverspread itself out into a large lake, with tall willows all round thebank. Here, hidden from everyone, she sat down on a stone and began tothink what she should do to save her child.Suddenly she heard a rustling among the willows, and an old womanappeared before her.'What are you crying for, my dear?' said she.And Thakane answered: 'I was crying for my baby I cannot hide her forever, and if the ogre sees her, he will eat her. and I would rather shewas drowned than that.''What you say is true,' replied the old woman. 'Give me your child, andlet me take care of it. And if you will fix a day to meet me here I willbring the baby.'Then Thakane dried her eyes, and gladly accepted the old woman's offer.When she got home she told her husband she had thrown it in the river,and as he had watched her go in that direction he never thought ofdoubting what she said.On the appointed day, Thakane slipped out when everybody was busy, andran down the path that led to the lake. As soon as she got there, shecrouched down among the willows, and sang softly:Bring to me Dilah, Dilah the rejected one, Dilah, whom her father Masilocast out!And in a moment the old woman appeared holding the baby in her arms.Dilah had become so big and strong, that Thakane's heart was filled withjoy and gratitude, and she stayed as long as she dared, playing with herbaby. At last she felt she must return to the village, lest she shouldbe missed, and the child was handed back to the old woman, who vanishedwith her into the lake.Children grow up very quickly when they live under water, and in lesstime than anyone could suppose, Dilah had changed from a baby to awoman. Her mother came to visit her whenever she was able, and one day,when they were sitting talking together, they were spied out by a manwho had come to cut willows to weave into baskets. He was so surprisedto see how like the face of the girl was to Masilo, that he left hiswork and returned to the village.'Masilo,' he said, as he entered the hut, 'I have just beheld your wifenear the river with a girl who must be your daughter, she is so likeyou. We have been deceived, for we all thought she was dead.'When he heard this, Masilo tried to look shocked because his wife hadbroken the law. but in his heart he was very glad.'But what shall we do now?' asked he.'Make sure for yourself that I am speaking the truth by hiding among thebushes the first time Thakane says she is going to bathe in the river,and waiting till the girl appears.'For some days Thakane stayed quietly at home, and her husband beganto think that the man had been mistaken. but at last she said to herhusband: 'I am going to bathe in the river.''Well, you can go,' answered he. But he ran down quickly by anotherpath, and got there first, and hid himself in the bushes. An instantlater, Thakane arrived, and standing on the bank, she sang:Bring to me Dilah, Dilah the rejected one, Dilah, whom her father Masilocast out!Then the old woman came out of the water, holding the girl, now tall andslender, by the hand. And as Masilo looked, he saw that she was indeedhis daughter, and he wept for joy that she was not lying dead in thebottom of the lake. The old woman, however, seemed uneasy, and said toThakane: 'I feel as if someone was watching us. I will not leave thegirl to day, but will take her back with me'. and sinking beneath thesurface, she drew the girl after her. After they had gone, Thakanereturned to the village, which Masilo had managed to reach before her.All the rest of the day he sat in a corner weeping, and his mother whocame in asked: 'Why are you weeping so bitterly, my son?''My head aches,' he answered. 'it aches very badly.' And his motherpassed on, and left him alone.In the evening he said to his wife: 'I have seen my daughter, in theplace where you told me you had drowned her. Instead, she lives at thebottom of the lake, and has now grown into a young woman.''I don't know what you are talking about,' replied Thakane. 'I buried mychild under the sand on the beach.'Then Masilo implored her to give the child back to him. but she wouldnot listen, and only answered: 'If I were to give her back you wouldonly obey the laws of your country and take her to your father, theogre, and she would be eaten.'But Masilo promised that he would never let his father see her, and thatnow she was a woman no one would try to hurt her. so Thakane's heartmelted, and she went down to the lake to consult the old woman.'What am I to do?' she asked, when, after clapping her hands, the oldwoman appeared before her. 'Yesterday Masilo beheld Dilah, and eversince he has entreated me to give him back his daughter.''If I let her go he must pay me a thousand head of cattle in exchange,'replied the old woman. And Thakane carried her answer back to Masilo.'Why, I would gladly give her two thousand!' cried he, 'for shehas saved my daughter.' And he bade messengers hasten to all theneighbouring villages, and tell his people to send him at once all thecattle he possessed. When they were all assembled he chose a thousand ofthe finest bulls and cows, and drove them down to the river, followed bya great crowd wondering what would happen.Then Thakane stepped forward in front of the cattle and sang:Bring to me Dilah, Dilah the rejected one, Dilah, whom her father Masilocast out!And Dilah came from the waters holding out her hands to Masilo andThakane, and in her place the cattle sank into the lake, and were drivenby the old woman to the great city filled with people, which lies at thebottom.