Long ago at Kyakima lived a girl who spent all her time herdingturkeys. She never did anything for her sisters. Nobody would combher hair. It was all in a snarl. Her sisters would tell her to cook.They would say, "Why do you so love the turkeys?" She did notanswer. After her sisters had cooked, she would take the bread andgo out and tend the turkeys.At Matsaki they were dancing lapalehakya (lapa>lapapoawe, "parrots."lahakya, "tell").They were dancing for the third time, whenthe turkey girl said, "Younger sisters ( ahani )!"The turkeys said, "What?"The girl said, "I want to go and see the dance."The turkeys said, "You are too dirty to go."She repeated, "I want to go."The turkeys said, "Let us eat the lice out of her hair!"Then each ate lice from her hair.Then an elder sister ( kyauu ) turkey clappedher wings, and down from the air fell women's moccasins ( mokwawe ).Then her younger sister ( ikina ) clapped her wings, and down from theair fell a blanket dress ( yatone ). Then another elder sister clappedher wings, and down from the air fell a belt ( ehnina ). A youngersister clapped her wings, and a pitone fell down. An elder sisterclapped, and a blanket ( eha ) fell down. The little younger sister( an hani tsanna ) clapped, and a hair belt ( tsutokehnina ) felldown.An kyauu said, "Is this all you want?"The girl said, "Yes." She put on the moccasins and the ehayatonana .The turkeys put up her hair in a queue.She said to the turkeys, "I will come back before sundown."She went to her house, and made a little cloth bag, and filled it with meal. Then she went on to Matsaki.Her sisters said, "Has she gone to the dance?"One said, "Yes."  "She is too dirty to go."After she reached Matsaki, as she stood there, the dance director ( otakya mosi ) asked if she would dance.She said, "Yes." She danced all day. When the sun set,she finished dancing, and ran back to the turkeys.The turkeys had said, when she did not come, "We must not go on living here. Our sister does not love us."When she arrived, they were not there.They were on top of a little hill, singing:Kyana to tokyana to tokyana to to yeuli uli uli to to to to.They flew down to Kyakima. They went on as fast as they coulduntil they came to turkey tracks ( tonateanawa ). There they drankat the spring. Their tracks were from north, south, east, west.After they drank, they flew to Shoakoskwikwi. They reached a highrock. They sat on it, and sang:Kyana to tokyana to tokyana to to yeuli uli uli to to to to.When awan kyauu arrived, the turkeys were not there. She sawtheir tracks. She followed the tracks on a run. At Tonateanawashe saw where they had drunk. She ran on. Then she lost theirtracks. She went back to her house. The turkeys had flown toShoakoskwikwi, to the spring there. That is why at Shoakoskwikwiyou see wild turkeys. The girl came back to her house crying.Hersisters said, "Don't cry! You did not return on time. You did notlove them."The girl stayed and cooked for her sisters. Thus it was long ago.