Mr. and Mrs. Vinegar lived in a vinegar bottle.Now one day, when Mr. Vinegar was away from home, Mrs. Vinegar, who wasa very good housewife, was busily sweeping her house, when an unluckythump of the broom brought the whole house clitter clatter,clitter clatter, about her ears. In a paroxysm of grief she rushed forthto meet her husband. On seeing him she exclaimed, "Oh, Mr. Vinegar, Mr.Vinegar, we are ruined, we are ruined. I have knocked the house down, andit is all to pieces!"Mr. Vinegar then said, "My dear, let us see what can be done. Here isthe door. I will take it on my back, and we will go forth to seek ourfortune."They walked all that day, and at nightfall entered a thick forest. Theywere both excessively tired, and Mr. Vinegar said, "My love, I will climbup into a tree, drag up the door, and you shall follow." He according didso, and they both stretched their weary limbs on the door, and fell fastasleep. In the middle of the night Mr. Vinegar was disturbed by the soundof voices beneath, and to his inexpressible dismay perceived that a partyof thieves were wet to divide their booty."Here, Jack," said one, "here's five pounds for you. Here, Bill, here'sten pounds for you. Here, Bob, here's three pounds for you."Mr. Vinegar could listen no longer. His terror was so intense that hetrembled most violently, and shook down the door on their heads. Awayscampered the thieves, but Mr. Vinegar dared not quit his retreat tillbroad daylight. He then scrambled out of the tree, and went to lift up thedoor. What did he behold but a number of golden guineas!"Come down, Mrs. Vinegar," he cried. "Come down, I say. Our fortune'smade, our fortune's made! Come down, I say."Mrs. Vinegar got down as fast as she could, and saw the money withequal delight. "Now, my dear," said she, "I'll tell you what you shall do.There is a fair at the neighboring town. You shall take these fortyguineas and buy a cow. I can make butter and cheese, which you shall sellat market, and we shall then be able to live very comfortably."Mr. Vinegar joyfully assents, takes the money, and goes off to thefair. When he arrived, he walked up and down, and at length saw abeautiful red cow. It was an excellent milker, and perfect in everyrespect. "Oh!" thought Mr. Vinegar, "If I had but that cow I should be thehappiest man alive." So he offers the forty guineas for the cow, and theowner declaring that, as he was a friend, he'd oblige him, the bargain wasmade. Proud of his purchase, he drove the cow backwards and forwards toshow it.By and by he saw a man playing the bagpipes, tweedle dum, tweedle dee.The children followed him about, and he appeared to be pocketing money onall sides. "Well," thought Mr. Vinegar, "if I had but that beautifulinstrument I should be the happiest man alive. My fortune would be made."So he went up to the man, "Friend," says he, "what a beautiful instrumentthat is, and what a deal of money you must make.""Why, yes," said the man, "I make a great deal of money, to be sure,and it is a wonderful instrument.""Oh!" cried Mr. Vinegar, "how I should like to possess it!""Well," said the man, "as you are a friend, I don't much mind partingwith it. You shall have it for that red cow.""Done," said the delighted Mr. Vinegar. So the beautiful red cow wasgiven for the bagpipes. He walked up and down with his purchase, but invain he attempted to play a tune, and instead of pocketing pence, the boysfollowed him hooting, laughing, and pelting. Poor Mr. Vinegar, his fingersgrew very cold, and, heartily ashamed and mortified, he was leaving thetown, when he met a man with a fine thick pair of gloves."Oh, my fingers are so very cold," said Mr. Vinegar to himself. "If Ihad but those beautiful gloves I should be the happiest man alive." Hewent up to the man, and said to him, "Friend, you seem to have a capitalpair of gloves there.""Yes, truly," cried the man. "and my hands are as warm as possible thiscold November day.""Well," said Mr. Vinegar, "I should like to have them.""What will you give?" said the man. "As you are a friend, I don't muchmind letting you have them for those bagpipes.""Done," cried Mr. Vinegar. He put on the gloves, and felt perfectlyhappy as he trudged homewards.At last he grew very tired, when he saw a man coming towards him with agood stout stick in his hand. "Oh," said Mr. Vinegar, "that I had but thatstick! I should then be the happiest man alive."He accosted the man, "Friend! What a rare good stick you have got.""Yes," said the man, "I have used it for many a long mile, and a goodfriend it has been, but if you have a fancy for it, as you are a friend, Idon't mind giving it to you for that pair of gloves."Mr. Vinegar's hands were so warm, and his legs so tired, that he gladlyexchanged. As he drew near to the wood where he had left his wife, heheard a parrot on a tree calling out his name, "Mr. Vinegar, you foolishman, you blockhead, you simpleton. you went to the fair and laid out allyour money in buying a cow. Not content with that, you changed it forbagpipes on which you could not play, and which were not worth one tenthof the money. You fool, you   you had no sooner got the bagpipes than youchanged them for the gloves, which were not worth one quarter of themoney. and when you had got the gloves, you changed them for a poormiserable stick. and now for your forty guineas, cow, bagpipes, andgloves, you have nothing to show but that poor miserable stick, which youmight have cut in any hedge."On this the bird laughed immoderately, and Mr. Vinegar, falling into aviolent rage, threw the stick at its head. The stick lodged in the tree,and he returned to his wife without money, cow, bagpipes, gloves, orstick, and she instantly gave him such a sound cudgeling that she almostbroke every bone in his skin.