Scarlet thread, spun on the wheel,Twisting on the twirling reel,Like the dancers turn and spin,While I now my tale begin!Once upon a time there was a merchant, and he traded "all the way to Bagdad," as the saying is. He had twelve ships which sailed to foreign countries, and he had besides three pretty daughters.Well, as time went on, luck turned against the merchant. His wife died. one by one he lost his ships. and every year he became poorer and poorer. At last he had lost all his property with the exception of one farm, and he went to live there with his daughters. As they had now no money to hire laborers, the merchant told the girls that they must set to and work on the farm in order that they might gain a living."We cannot do farm work," replied the two eldest, tossing their heads. "We are not accustomed to it."But the youngest, whose name was Rosa, loved her father very dearly. and she at once prepared to do as he wished. So she set to with a will, and digged in the garden, and raked, and planted. and when the fruits and vegetables were grown, she rose early in the morning to gather them for her father to carry to market.Time passed, and after many months tidings came to the merchant that three of his belated ships had come into port laden with costly goods, when he immediately prepared to go to the city. But before mounting his horse, he asked his daughters what each desired as a present.The two eldest begged for fine silken gowns. but when he asked the youngest, she said, "I want nothing, papa mine, now that I see you released from your poverty." And when her father pressed her, she said, "Well, then, papa mine, bring me a rose, a beautiful, sweet smelling damask rose."So the merchant set off for the port, and landed his goods. In twelve days' time he had sold them all save the two silken gowns which he had kept for his daughters. but he had found no rose for the youngest.As he was riding home to his farm, it began to rain so heavily that when they came to the open gateway of a house by the wayside, his horse trotted through it into the courtyard. There was no one about, so he put the horse in the stable, and went up to the house. The door stood wide open, so he walked in and sate himself down on a seat in the hall. At once he found by his side coffee and sweetmeats, and a long pipe filled with fragrant tobacco, without his seeing who had brought them.Presently the rain ceased, and the merchant arose and went from chamber to chamber to seek the host and thank him for the shelter and entertainment. Finding no one, however, he was going forth to take his beast from the stable and continue his journey, when, as he crossed the courtyard, he caught sight of a bush of damask roses which had three blossoms on one stem.No sooner, however, had he stretched out his hand and plucked them than there appeared at his feet a snake, who said, "Ah, thankless man! After I have opened my doors to save thee from the storm, canst not see a rose or two without desiring and plucking them?""I sought through the chambers to find the host and say a "Thank you" to him, but found him not," the merchant replied."Listen to me," then said the snake. "Thou hast three daughters, and thou must bring me the youngest. Think not to thyself that I am only a snake, and cannot come and find thee if thou dost not my bidding."The poor man asked how many days' grace he would give him. and he granted him forty days.At last he got home to his house. his daughters gathered round him. and when the two eldest had got their gowns he gave the roses to the youngest, and then sat down weeping."What is the matter, papa mine, that you weep?" she asked, anxiously.Then, as the merchant related his adventure, Rosa's sisters began to reproach her, and point their fingers at her, saying, "Wretched girl that thou art! A gown was not good enough for thee, but thou must have a damask rose, forsooth, that the snake might come and destroy us!"When her father had also told them of the forty days' grace, Rosa went to her chamber and wrote down the date. and she did not seem at all troubled, though her sisters were continually reproaching her.On the thirty eighth day she went to her father and said, "Papa mine, saddle now the horse so that we may go where I am invited.""Can I take thee, my darling child, to the snake who will destroy thee?" cried the unhappy man."The snake will not destroy me, if I do his bidding," replied Rosa. "What ill will can he have against me? Arise, and let us be gone."She bade farewell to her sisters. she and her father set out on their journey, and on the fortieth day they arrived at the snake's abode. The gate was open, as before, and when the merchant had stabled his horse he led his daughter into the house, and they sate them down.Soon came coffee and sweets, as before, without anyone being seen. and in a little while the snake appeared and said to the merchant, "So thou hast done my bidding and brought thy daughter?""Yea, I have brought her, as I promised," he replied. and when he had kissed and embraced his daughter, he mounted his horse and rode home again. But in a few days he fell ill with grief and took to his bed. So the poor girl was left alone with the snake.And it became the snake's custom, every day when she was taking her coffee after dinner, to climb into her lap and ask her, "Wilt thou take me for thy husband?"And she would reply, "But I am afraid of thee."And she was very sad and lonely because her father did not come to see her as he had promised. Well, one day, as she was sitting at the table, it suddenly opened before her and disclosed a mirror in which all the world was reflected. and, when she saw in it her father lying ill in bed, she began to weep and tear her hair.The snake, who was in the garden, hearing her cries and her breast beatings, hurried to her and asked, "What ails thee, my Rose?""See in the mirror," she cried, "how my father lies nigh unto death!"Then said the snake, "Open the table drawer and thou wilt find a ring. Put it on thy finger, and tell me how many days thou wilt be absent?""I will come back," she replied, "as soon as my father recovers.""Well, I will give thee thirty one days' leave. If thou come one day later, thou wilt find me dead on some mound in the garden.""Do thyself no harm," said the girl. "When my leave has expired I will return to thee."The snake ordered supper to be served, and when she had eaten, he said, "Put the ring on thy tongue, and thou wilt find thyself at home in thy chamber."Rosa lay down, put the ring on her tongue, and closed her eyes. Her father's servants, passing the door of her chamber, heard her breathing, and ran to tell their young mistresses, who hastened in and found her asleep on her bed. The maiden awoke, and when she found that she was indeed at home again she praised God.Her father was rejoiced to see his Rosa again, and asked her many questions about her life with the snake. When she told him what the snake had said to her every day at dinner time, and that she had replied, "But I am afraid of thee," he said to her, "My daughter dear, the next time he asks thee that question, do thou answer, "Yea, I will take thee!" and we shall see what will hap."And she promised to say this. Her sisters, however, tried to persuade her not to go back, so that the snake might die and they would be rid of him.But Rosa was indignant, and replied, "How could I leave my beast to die, who have received such help from him?"So she remained with her father, whose joy she was, for as many days as she had leave. Then, bidding him and her sisters farewell, she lay down on her bed, put the ring in her mouth, and went back to the snake.When he saw her, he said, "Ah, thou hast come back to me, my Rose!"And after dinner, when coffee was served, and he lay in her lap as before and asked, "Wilt thou take me for thy husband?" she replied, "Yea, I will take thee!"When she had said these words the snake's skin fell off him, and he became a handsome prince. And the table again opened and all the world was seen therein. Then Rosa asked him what manner of man he was, and how he had become a snake. And he told her how that he had fallen under the spell of an enchantress who had changed him into a snake, and had doomed him to retain that shape until he should find a maiden who would consent to marry him."But now," he said, "I will return to my kingdom. Thy father and sisters shall be conveyed thither, and then we will hold our wedding."So they were married, and the prince made his father in law his grand vizier. And we will leave them well, and return and find them better   God be praised!