There lived in Boston a wise and ancient chemist by the name of Dr.Daws, who dabbled somewhat in magic. There also lived in Boston ayoung lady by the name of Claribel Sudds, who was possessed of muchmoney, little wit and an intense desire to go upon the stage.So Claribel went to Dr. Daws and said:"I can neither sing nor dance. I cannot recite verse nor play uponthe piano. I am no acrobat nor leaper nor high kicker. yet I wish togo upon the stage. What shall I do?""Are you willing to pay for such accomplishments?" asked the wisechemist."Certainly," answered Claribel, jingling her purse."Then come to me to morrow at two o'clock," said he.All that night he practiced what is known as chemical sorcery. sothat when Claribel Sudds came next day at two o'clock he showed hera small box filled with compounds that closely resembled Frenchbonbons."This is a progressive age," said the old man, "and I flatter myselfyour Uncle Daws keeps right along with the procession. Now, one ofyour old fashioned sorcerers would have made you some nasty, bitterpills to swallow. but I have consulted your taste and convenience.Here are some magic bonbons. If you eat this one with the lavendercolor you can dance thereafter as lightly and gracefully as if youhad been trained a lifetime. After you consume the pink confectionyou will sing like a nightingale. Eating the white one will enableyou to become the finest elocutionist in the land. The chocolatepiece will charm you into playing the piano better than Rubenstein,while after eating you lemon yellow bonbon you can easily kick sixfeet above your head.""How delightful!" exclaimed Claribel, who was truly enraptured. "Youare certainly a most clever sorcerer as well as a consideratecompounder," and she held out her hand for the box."Ahem!" said the wise one. "a check, please.""Oh, yes. to be sure! How stupid of me to forget it," she returned.He considerately retained the box in his own hand while she signed acheck for a large amount of money, after which he allowed her tohold the box herself."Are you sure you have made them strong enough?" she inquired,anxiously. "it usually takes a great deal to affect me.""My only fear," replied Dr. Daws, "is that I have made them toostrong. For this is the first time I have ever been called upon toprepare these wonderful confections.""Don't worry," said Claribel. "the stronger they act the better Ishall act myself."She went away, after saying this, but stopping in at a dry goodsstore to shop, she forgot the precious box in her new interest andleft it lying on the ribbon counter.Then little Bessie Bostwick came to the counter to buy a hair ribbonand laid her parcels beside the box. When she went away she gatheredup the box with her other bundles and trotted off home with it.Bessie never knew, until after she had hung her coat in the hallcloset and counted up her parcels, that she had one too many. Thenshe opened it and exclaimed:"Why, it's a box of candy! Someone must have mislaid it. But it istoo small a matter to worry about. there are only a few pieces." Soshe dumped the contents of the box into a bonbon dish that stoodupon the hall table and picking out the chocolate piece she wasfond of chocolates ate it daintily while she examined her purchases.These were not many, for Bessie was only twelve years old and wasnot yet trusted by her parents to expend much money at the stores.But while she tried on the hair ribbon she suddenly felt a greatdesire to play upon the piano, and the desire at last became sooverpowering that she went into the parlor and opened theinstrument.The little girl had, with infinite pains, contrived to learn two"pieces" which she usually executed with a jerky movement of herright hand and a left hand that forgot to keep up and so madedreadful discords. But under the influence of the chocolate bonbonshe sat down and ran her fingers lightly over the keys producingsuch exquisite harmony that she was filled with amazement at her ownperformance.That was the prelude, however. The next moment she dashed intoBeethoven's seventh sonata and played it magnificently.Her mother, hearing the unusual burst of melody, came downstairs tosee what musical guest had arrived. but when she discovered it washer own little daughter who was playing so divinely she had anattack of palpitation of the heart (to which she was subject) andsat down upon a sofa until it should pass away.Meanwhile Bessie played one piece after another with untiringenergy. She loved music, and now found that all she need do was tosit at the piano and listen and watch her hands twinkle over thekeyboard.Twilight deepened in the room and Bessie's father came home and hungup his hat and overcoat and placed his umbrella in the rack. Then hepeeped into the parlor to see who was playing."Great Caesar!" he exclaimed. But the mother came to him softly withher finger on her lips and whispered: "Don't interrupt her, John.Our child seems to be in a trance. Did you ever hear such superbmusic?""Why, she's an infant prodigy!" gasped the astounded father. "BeatsBlind Tom all hollow! It's it's wonderful!"As they stood listening the senator arrived, having been invited todine with them that evening. And before he had taken off his coatthe Yale professor a man of deep learning and scholarlyattainments joined the party.Bessie played on. and the four elders stood in a huddled but silentand amazed group, listening to the music and waiting for the soundof the dinner gong.Mr. Bostwick, who was hungry, picked up the bonbon dish that lay onthe table beside him and ate the pink confection. The professor waswatching him, so Mr. Bostwick courteously held the dish toward him.The professor ate the lemon yellow piece and the senator reached outhis hand and took the lavender piece. He did not eat it, however,for, chancing to remember that it might spoil his dinner, he put itin his vest pocket. Mrs. Bostwick, still intently listening to herprecocious daughter, without thinking what she did, took theremaining piece, which was the white one, and slowly devoured it.The dish was now empty, and Claribel Sudds' precious bonbons hadpassed from her possession forever!Suddenly Mr. Bostwick, who was a big man, began to sing in a shrill,tremolo soprano voice. It was not the same song Bessie was playing,and the discord was shocking that the professor smiled, the senatorput his hands to his ears and Mrs. Bostwick cried in a horrifiedvoice:"William!"Her husband continued to sing as if endeavoring to emulate thefamous Christine Nillson, and paid no attention whatever to his wifeor his guests.Fortunately the dinner gong now sounded, and Mrs. Bostwick draggedBessie from the piano and ushered her guests into the dining room.Mr. Bostwick followed, singing "The Last Rose of Summer" as if ithad been an encore demanded by a thousand delighted hearers.The poor woman was in despair at witnessing her husband'sundignified actions and wondered what she might do to control him.The professor seemed more grave than usual. the senator's face worean offended expression, and Bessie kept moving her fingers as if shestill wanted to play the piano.Mrs. Bostwick managed to get them all seated, although her husbandhad broken into another aria. and then the maid brought in the soup.When she carried a plate to the professor, he cried, in an excitedvoice:"Hold it higher! Higher I say!" And springing up he gave it asudden kick that sent it nearly to the ceiling, from whence the dishdescended to scatter soup over Bessie and the maid and to smash inpieces upon the crown of the professor's bald head.At this atrocious act the senator rose from his seat with anexclamation of horror and glanced at his hostess.For some time Mrs. Bostwick had been staring straight ahead, with adazed expression. but now, catching the senator's eye, she bowedgracefully and began reciting "The Charge of the Light Brigade" inforceful tones.The senator shuddered. Such disgraceful rioting he had never seennor heard before in a decent private family. He felt that hisreputation was at stake, and, being the only sane person,apparently, in the room, there was no one to whom he might appeal.The maid had run away to cry hysterically in the kitchen. Mr.Bostwick was singing "O Promise Me." the professor was trying tokick the globes off the chandelier. Mrs. Bostwick had switched herrecitation to "The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck," and Bessie hadstolen into the parlor and was pounding out the overture from the"Flying Dutchman."The senator was not at all sure he would not go crazy himself,presently. so he slipped away from the turmoil, and, catching up hishad and coat in the hall, hurried from the house.That night he sat up late writing a political speech he was todeliver the next afternoon at Faneuil hall, but his experiences atthe Bostwicks' had so unnerved him that he could scarcely collecthis thoughts, and often he would pause and shake his head pityinglyas he remembered the strange things he had seen in that usuallyrespectable home.The next day he met Mr. Bostwick in the street, but passed him bywith a stony glare of oblivion. He felt he really could not affordto know this gentleman in the future. Mr. Bostwick was naturallyindignant at the direct snub. yet in his mind lingered a faintmemory of some quite unusual occurrences at his dinner party theevening before, and he hardly knew whether he dared resent thesenator's treatment or not.The political meeting was the feature of the day, for the senator'seloquence was well known in Boston. So the big hall was crowded withpeople, and in one of the front rows sat the Bostwick family, withthe learned Yale professor beside them. They all looked tired andpale, as if they had passed a rather dissipated evening, and thesenator was rendered so nervous by seeing them that he refused tolook in their direction a second time.While the mayor was introducing him the great man sat fidgeting inhis chair. and, happening to put his thumb and finger into his vestpocket, he found the lavender colored bonbon he had placed there theevening before."This may clear my throat," thought the senator, and slipped thebonbon into his mouth.A few minutes afterwards he arose before the vast audience, whichgreeted him with enthusiastic plaudits."My friends," began the senator, in a grave voice, "this is a mostimpressive and important occasion."Then he paused, balanced himself upon his left foot, and kicked hisright leg into the air in the way favored by ballet dancers!There was a hum of amazement and horror from the spectators, but thesenator appeared not to notice it. He whirled around upon the tipsof his toes, kicked right and left in a graceful manner, andstartled a bald headed man in the front row by casting a languishingglance in his direction.Suddenly Claribel Sudds, who happened to be present, uttered a screamand sprang to her feet. Pointing an accusing finger at the dancingsenator, she cried in a loud voice:"That's the man who stole my bonbons! Seize him! Arrest him! Don'tlet him escape!"But the ushers rushed her out of the hall, thinking she had gonesuddenly insane. and the senator's friends seized him firmly andcarried him out the stage entrance to the street, where they put himinto an open carriage and instructed the driver to take him home.The effect of the magic bonbon was still powerful enough to controlthe poor senator, who stood upon the rear seat of the carriage anddanced energetically all the way home, to the delight of the crowdof small boys who followed the carriage and the grief of thesober minded citizens, who shook their heads sadly and whisperedthat "another good man had gone wrong."It took the senator several months to recover from the shame andhumiliation of this escapade. and, curiously enough, he never hadthe slightest idea what had induced him to act in so extraordinary amanner. Perhaps it was fortunate the last bonbon had now been eaten,for they might easily have caused considerably more trouble thanthey did.Of course Claribel went again to the wise chemist and signed a checkfor another box of magic bonbons. but she must have taken bettercare of these, for she is now a famous vaudeville actress.This story should teach us the folly of condemning others foractions that we do not understand, for we never know what may happento ourselves. It may also serve as a hint to be careful aboutleaving parcels in public places, and, incidentally, to let otherpeople's packages severely alone.