It was springtime, and along Mio's pine clad shore there came a soundof birds. The blue sea danced and sparkled in the sunshine, and Hairukoo,a fisherman, sat down to enjoy the scene. As he did so he chanced to see,hanging on a pine tree, a beautiful robe of pure white feathers.As Hairukoo was about to take down the robe he saw coming toward himfrom the sea an extremely lovely maiden, who requested that the fishermanwould restore the robe to her.Hairukoo gazed upon the lady with considerable admiration. Said he, "Ifound this robe, and I mean to keep it, for it is a marvel to be placedamong the treasures of Japan. No, I cannot possibly give it to you.""Oh," cried the maiden pitifully, "I cannot go soaring into the skywithout my robe of feathers, for if you persist in keeping it I can nevermore return to my celestial home. Oh, good fisherman, I beg of you torestore my robe!"The fisherman, who must have been a hard hearted fellow, refused torelent."The more you plead," said he, "the more determined I am to keep what Ihave found."Thus the maiden made answer:Speak not, dear fisherman! Speak not that word!Ah! know'st thou not that, like the hapless birdWhose wings are broke, I seek, but seek in vain,Reft of my wings, to soar to heav'n's blue plain?After further argument on the subject the fisherman's heart softened alittle."I will restore your robe of feathers," said he, "if you will at oncedance before me."Then the maiden replied, "I will dance it here   the dance that makesthe Palace of the Moon turn round, so that even poor transitory man maylearn its mysteries. But I cannot dance without my feathers.""No," said the fisherman suspiciously. "If I give you this robe, youwill fly away without dancing before me."This remark made the maiden extremely angry."The pledge of mortals may be broken," said she, "but there is nofalsehood among the heavenly beings."These words put the fisherman to shame, and, without more ado, he gavethe maiden her robe of feathers.When the maiden had put on her pure white garment she struck a musicalinstrument and began to dance, and while she danced and played she sang ofmany strange and beautiful things concerning her faraway home in the moon.She sang of the might Palace of the Moon, where thirty monarchs ruled,fifteen in robes of white when that shining orb was full, and fifteenrobed in black when the moon was waning. As she sang and played and dancedshe blessed Japan, "that earth may still her proper increase yield!"The fisherman did not long enjoy this kindly exhibition of the MoonLady's skill, for very soon her dainty feet ceased to tap upon the sand.She rose into the air, the white feathers of her robe gleaming against thepine trees or against the blue sky itself. Up, up she went, still playingand singing, past the summits of the mountains, higher and higher, untilher song was hushed, until she reached the glorious Palace of the Moon.