A Turk and his wife halted in the shadow of a tree. The Turk went tothe river to water his horse, and his wife remainedto await his return. Just then an Era (peasant) passed by and saluted theTurkish woman, "Allah help you, noble lady!""May God aid you," she returned. "Where are you coming from?""I come from the other world, noble lady.""As you have been in the other world, have you not, perchance, seenthere my son Mouyo, who died a few months ago?""Oh, how could I help seeing him? He is my immediate neighbor.""Happy me! How is he, then?""He is well, may God be praised! But he could stand just a little moretobacco and some more pocket money to pay for black coffee.""Are you going back again? And if so, would you be so kind as todeliver to him this purse with his parent's greetings?"The Era took the money, protesting that he would be only too glad toconvey so pleasant a surprise to the youth, andhurried away. Soon the Turk came back, and his wife told him what hadtranspired. He perceived at once that she had beenvictimized and without stopping to reproach her, he mounted his horse andgalloped after the Era , who, observing thepursuit, and guessing at once that the horseman was the husband of thecredulous woman, made all the speed that he could.There was a mill nearby, and making for it, the Era rushed in andaddressed the miller with, "For Goodness' sake,brother, fly! There is a Turkish horseman coming with drawn sword. He willkill you. I heard him say so and have hurried towarn you in time."The miller had no time to ask for particulars. He knewhow cruel the Turks were, and without a word hedashed out of the mill and fled up the adjacent rocks.Meantime the Era placed the miller's hat upon his own head andsprinkled flour copiously over his clothes, that he mightlook like a miller. No sooner was this done than the Turk came up.Alighting from his horse, he rushed into the mill andhurriedly asked the Era where he had hidden the thief. The Era pointedindifferently to the fleeing miller on the rock,whereupon the Turk requested him to take care of his horse while he ranand caught the swindler. When the Turk had gonesome distance up the hill, our Era brushed his clothes, swiftly mountedthe horse, and galloped away.The Turk caught the real miller, and demanded,"Where is the money you took from my wife, swindler?"The poor miller made the sign of the cross and said, "God forbid! Inever saw your noble lady, still less did I take her money."After about half an hour of futile discussion, the Turk was convincedof the miller's innocence, and returned to where hehad left his horse. But lo! There was no sign of a horse! He walked sadlyback to his wife, and she, seeing that her husbandhad no horse, asked in surprise, "Where did you go, and what became ofyour horse?"The Turk replied, "You sent money to our darling son. so I thought Ihad better send him the horse that he need not go on foot in the otherworld!"