Know, O King of the age, that I came to this country with merchandise,and destiny stayed me among your people. I was born in Cairo, and am oneof its Copts, and there I was brought up. My father was a broker. andwhen I had attained to manhood, he died, and I succeeded to hisbusiness. and as I was sitting one day, lo, a young man of most handsomeaspect, and clad in a dress of the richest description, came to me,riding upon an ass, and, when he saw me, saluted me. whereupon I rose tohim, to pay him honour, and he produced a handkerchief containing somesesame, and said, What is the value of an ardebb of this? Ianswered him, A hundred pieces of silver. And he said to me, Take thecarriers and the measurers, and repair to the Khan of El Jawaleein the district of Bab en Nar: there wilt thou find me. And heleft me and went his way, after having given me the handkerchief withthe sample of the sesame. So I went about to the purchasers. and theprice of each ardebb amounted to a hundred and twenty pieces of silver.and I took with me four carriers, and went to him. I found him waitingmy arrival. and when he saw me he rose and opened a magazine, and wemeasured its contents, and the whole amounted to fifty ardebbs. Theyoung man then said, Thou shalt have, for every ardebb, ten pieces ofsilver as brokerage. and do thou receive the price and keep it in thycare: the whole sum will be five thousand. and thy share of it, fivehundred: so there will remain for me four thousand and five hundred. andwhen I shall have finished the sale of the goods contained in mystore rooms, I will come to thee and receive it. I replied, It shall beas thou desirest. And I kissed his hand, and left him. Thus thereaccrued to me, on that day, a thousand pieces of silver, besides mybrokerage.He was absent from me a month, at the expiration of which he came andsaid to me, Where is the money? I answered, Here it is, ready. And hesaid, Keep it until I come to thee to receive it. And I remainedexpecting him. but he was absent from me another month. after which hecame again, and said, Where is the money? Whereupon I arose and salutedhim, and said to him, Wilt thou eat something with us? He, however,declined, and said, Keep the money until I shall have gone and returnedto receive it from thee. He then departed. and I arose, and prepared forhim the money, and sat expecting him. but again he absented himself fromme for a month, and then came and said, After this day I will receive itfrom thee. And he departed, and I made ready the money for him asbefore, and sat waiting his return. Again, however, he remained a monthabsent from me, and I said within myself, Verily this young man isendowed with consummate liberality! After the month he came, attired inrich clothing, and resembling the full moon, appearing as if he had justcome out of the bath, with red cheek and fair forehead, and a mole likea globule of ambergris. When I beheld him I kissed his hand, and invokeda blessing upon him, and said to him, O my master, wilt thou not takethy money? Have patience with me, he answered, until I shall havetransacted all my affairs, after which I will receive it from thee. Andso saying, he departed. and I said within myself, By Allah, when hecometh I will entertain him as a guest, on account of the profit which Ihave derived from his money. for great wealth hath accrued to me fromit.At the close of the year he returned, clad in a dress richer than theformer. and I swore to him that he should alight to be my guest. On thecondition, he replied, that thou expend nothing of my money that is inthy possession. I said, Well: and, having seated him, prepared what wasrequisite of meats and drinks and other provisions, and placed thembefore him, saying, In the name of Allah! And he drew near to the table,and put forth his left hand, and thus ate with me: so I was surprised athim. and when we had finished he washed his hand, and I gavehim a napkin with which to wipe it. We then sat down to converse, and Isaid, O my master dispel a trouble from my mind. Wherefore didst thoueat with thy left hand? Probably something paineth thee in thy righthand? On hearing these words, he stretched forth his arm from hissleeve, and behold, it was maimed an arm without a hand! AndI wondered at this. but he said to me, Wonder not. nor say in thy heartthat I ate with thee with my left hand from a motive of self conceit.for rather to be wondered at is the cause of the cutting off of my righthand. And what, said I, was the cause of it? He answered, thus: Know that I am from Baghdad: my father was one of the chief people ofthat city. and when I had attained the age of manhood, I heard thewanderers and travellers and merchants conversing respecting the land ofEgypt, and their words remained in my heart until my father died, when Itook large sums of money, and prepared merchandise consisting of thestuffs of Baghdad and of El Moil, and similar precious goods, and,having packed them up, journeyed from Baghdad. and God decreed me safetyuntil I entered this your city. And so saying, he wept, and repeatedthese verses: The blear eyed escapeth a pit into which the clear sighted falleth.And the ignorant, an expression by which the shrewd sage is ruined.The believer can scarce earn his food, while the impious infidelis favoured.What art or act can a man devise? It is what the Almighty appointeth!I entered Cairo, continued the young man, and deposited the stuffs inthe Khan of Mesroor, and, having unbound my packages and putthem in the magazines, gave to the servant some money to buy for ussomething to eat, after which I slept a little. and when I arose, I wentto Beyn el areyn. I then returned, and passed the night.and in the morning following, I opened a bale of stuff, and said withinmyself, I will arise and go through some of the market streets, and seethe state of the mart. So I took some stuff, and made some of myservants carry it, and proceeded until I arrived at the eysareeyeh ofJaharkas, where the brokers came to me, having heard of myarrival, and took from me the stuff, and cried it about for sale. butthe price bidden amounted not to the prime cost. And upon this theSheykh of the brokers said to me, O my master, I know a plan by whichthou mayest profit. and it is this: that thou do as other merchants, andsell thy merchandise upon credit for a certain period, employing ascrivener and a witness and a money changer, and receive a portion ofthe profits every Thursday and Monday. so shalt thou make of every pieceof silver two. and besides that, thou wilt be able to enjoy theamusements afforded by Egypt and its Nile. The advice is judicious, Ireplied: and accordingly I took the brokers with me to the Khan, andthey conveyed the stuffs to the eysareeyeh, where I sold it to themerchants, writing a bond in their names, which I committed to themoney changer, and taking from him a corresponding bond. I then returnedto the Khan, and remained there some days. and every day I took for mybreakfast a cup of wine, and had mutton and sweetmeats prepared for me,until the month in which I became entitled to the receipt of theprofits, when I seated myself every Thursday and Monday at the shops ofthe merchants, and the money changer went with the scrivener and broughtme the money.Thus did I until one day I went to the bath and returned to the Khan,and, entering my lodging, took for my breakfast a cup of wine, and thenslept. and when I awoke I ate a fowl, and perfumed myselfwith essence, and repaired to the shop of a merchant named Bedr ed Deenthe Gardener, who, when he saw me, welcomed me, and conversedwith me a while in his shop. and as we were thus engaged, lo, a femalecame and seated herself by my side. She wore a headkerchief inclined onone side, and the odours of sweet perfumes were diffused from her, andshe captivated my reason by her beauty and loveliness as she raised herizar and I beheld her black eyes. She saluted Bedr ed Deen, and hereturned her salutation, and stood conversing with her. and when I heardher speech, love for her took entire possession of my heart. She thensaid to Bedr ed Deen, Hast thou a piece of stuff woven with pure goldthread? And he produced to her a piece. and she said, May I take it andgo, and then send thee the price? But he answered, It is impossible, Omy mistress. for this is the owner of the stuff, and I owe him a portionof the profit. Wo to thee! said she: it is my custom to take of theeeach piece of stuff for a considerable sum of money, giving thee a gainbeyond thy wish, and then to send thee the price. Yes, he rejoined. butI am in absolute want of the price this day. And upon this she took thepiece and threw it back to him upon his breast, saying, Verily yourclass knows not how to respect any person's rank! And she arose, andturned away. I felt then as if my soul went with her, and, rising uponmy feet, I said to her, O my mistress, kindly bestow a look upon me, andretrace thine honoured steps. And she returned, and smiled and said, Forthy sake I return. And she sat opposite me upon the seat of the shop.and I said to Bedr ed Deen, What is the price that thou hast agreed togive for this piece. He answered, Eleven hundred pieces of silver. And Isaid to him, Thy profit shall be a hundred pieces of silver: give methen a paper, and I will write for thee the price upon it. I then tookthe piece of stuff from him, and wrote him the paper with my own hand,and gave the piece of stuff to the lady, saying to her, Take it and go.and if thou wilt, bring the price to me in the market. or, if thou wilt,it shall be my present to thee. She replied, God recompense thee, andbless thee with my property, and make thee my husband. and may Godaccept this prayer! O my mistress, said I, let this piece of stuff bethine, and another like it, and permit me to see thy face. And upon thisshe raised her veil. and when I beheld her face, the sight drew from mea thousand sighs, and my heart was entangled by her love, so that I nolonger remained master of my reason. She then lowered the veil again,and took the piece of stuff, saying, O my master, leave me not desolate.So she departed, while I continued sitting in the market street untilpast the hour of afternoon prayer, with wandering mind, overpowered bylove. In the excess of my passion, before I rose I asked the merchantrespecting her. and he answered me, She is a rich lady, the daughter ofa deceased Emeer, who left her great property.I then took leave of him, and returned to the Khan, and the supper wasplaced before me. but, reflecting upon her, I could eat nothing. I laidmyself down to rest. but sleep came not to me, and I remained awakeuntil the morning, when I arose and put on a suit of clothing differentfrom that which I had worn the day before. and, having drunk a cup ofwine, and eaten a few morsels as my breakfast, repaired again to theshop of the merchant, and saluted him, and sat down with him. The ladysoon came, wearing a dress more rich than the former, and attended by aslave girl. and she seated herself, and saluted me instead ofBedr ed Deen, and said, with an eloquent tongue which I had never heardsurpassed in softness or sweetness, Send with me some one to receive thetwelve hundred pieces of silver, the price of the piece ofstuff. Wherefore, said I, this haste? She replied, May we never losethee! And she handed to me the price. and I sat conversing with her, andmade a sign to her, which she understood, intimating my wish to visither: whereupon she rose in haste, expressing displeasure at my hint. Myheart clung to her, and I followed in the direction of her steps throughthe market street. and lo, a slave girl came to me, and said, O mymaster, answer the summons of my mistress. Wondering at this, I said, Noone here knoweth me. How soon, she rejoined, hast thou forgotten her!My mistress is she who was to day at the shop of the merchantBedr ed Deen. So I went with her until we arrived at themoney changer's. and when her mistress, who was there, beheldme, she drew me to her side, and said, O my beloved, thou hast woundedmy heart, and love of thee hath taken possession of it. and from thetime that I first saw thee, neither sleep nor food nor drink hath beenpleasant to me. I replied, And more than that do I feel. and the statein which I am needs no complaint to testify it. Then shall I visitthee, O my beloved, she asked, or wilt thou come to me? For our marriagemust be a secret. I am a stranger, I answered, and have noplace of reception but the Khan. therefore, if thou wilt kindly permitme to go to thine abode the pleasure will be perfect. Well, shereplied. but to night is the eve of Friday, and let nothing be done tillto morrow, when, after thou hast joined in the prayers, do thou mountthine ass, and inquire for the abbaneeyeh. and when thouhast arrived there, ask for the house called the a'ah ofBarakat the Naeeb, known by the surname of Aboo Shameh. forthere do I reside. and delay not. for I shall be anxiously expectingthee.On hearing this I rejoiced exceedingly, and we parted. and I returned tothe Khan in which I lodged. I passed the whole night sleepless, and wasscarcely sure that the daybreak had appeared when I rose and changed myclothes, and, having perfumed myself with essences and sweet scents,took with me fifty pieces of gold in a handkerchief, and walked from theKhan of Mesroor to Bab Zuweyleh, where I mounted an ass, andsaid to its owner, Go with me to the abbaneeyeh. And in less than thetwinkling of an eye he set off, and soon he stopped at a by streetcalled Darb El Munairee, when I said to him, Enter the street, andinquire for the a'ah of the Naeeb. He was absent but a little while,and, returning, said, Alight. Walk on before me, said I, to the a'ah.And he went on until he had led me to the house. whereupon I said tohim, To morrow come to me hither to convey me back. In the name ofAllah, he replied: and I handed to him a quarter of a piece of gold, andhe took it and departed. I then knocked at the door, and there cameforth to me two young virgins in whom the forms of womanhood had justdeveloped themselves, resembling two moons, and they said, Enter. forour mistress is expecting thee, and she hath not slept last night fromher excessive love for thee. I entered an upper saloon with seven doors:around it were latticed windows looking upon a garden in which werefruits of every kind, and running streams and singing birds: it wasplastered with imperial gypsum, in which a man might see his facereflected: its roof was ornamented with gilding, andsurrounded by inscriptions in letters of gold upon a ground ofultramarine: it comprised a variety of beauties, and shone in the eyesof beholders: the pavement was of coloured marbles, having in the midstof it a fountain, with four snakes of red gold casting forth water fromtheir mouths like pearls and jewels at the corners of thepool. and it was furnished with carpets of coloured silk, andmattresses.Having entered, I seated myself. and scarcely had I done so when thelady approached me. She wore a crown set with pearls andjewels. her hands and feet were stained with enna. and herbosom was ornamented with gold. As soon as she beheld me she smiled inmy face, and embraced me, saying, Is it true that thou hast come to me,or is this a dream? I am thy slave, I answered. and she said, Thou artwelcome. Verily, from the time when I first saw thee, neither sleep hathbeen sweet to me, nor hath food been pleasant! In such case have _I_been, I replied. and we sat down to converse. but I hung down my headtowards the ground, in bashfulness. and not long had I thus remainedwhen a repast was placed before me, consisting of the most exquisitedishes, as fricandoes and hashes and stuffed fowls. I ate with her untilwe were satisfied. when they brought the basin and ewer, and I washed myhands. after which we perfumed ourselves with rose water infused withmusk, and sat down again to converse: expressing to each other ourmutual passion. and her love took such possession of me that all thewealth I possessed seemed worthless in comparison. In this manner wecontinued to enjoy ourselves until, night approaching, the female slavesbrought supper and wine, a complete service. and we drank untilmidnight. Never in my life had I passed such a night. And when morningcame, I arose, and, having thrown to her the handkerchief containing thepieces of gold, I took leave of her and went out. but as Idid so she wept, and said, O my master, when shall I see again thislovely face? I answered her, I will be with thee at the commencement ofthe night. And when I went forth, I found the owner of the ass, who hadbrought me the day before, waiting for me at the door. and I mounted,and returned with him to the Khan of Mesroor, where I alighted, and gaveto him half a piece of gold, saying to him, Come hither at sunset. Hereplied, On the head be thy command.I entered the Khan, and ate my breakfast, and then went forth to collectthe price of my stuffs. after which I returned. I had prepared for mywife a roasted lamb, and purchased some sweetmeat and I now called theporter, described to him the house, and gave him his hire. Having donethis, I occupied myself again with my business until sunset, when theowner of the ass came, and I took fifty pieces of gold, and put theminto a handkerchief. Entering the house, I found that they had wiped themarble and polished the vessels of copper and brass, and filled thelamps and lighted the candles, and dished the supper and strained thewine. and when my wife saw me, she threw her arms around my neck, andsaid, Thou hast made me desolate by thine absence! The tables were thenplaced before us, and we ate until we were satisfied, and theslave girls took away the first table, and placed before us the wine.and we sat drinking, and eating of the dried fruits, and making merry,until midnight. We then slept until morning, when I arose and handed herthe fifty pieces of gold as before, and left her.Thus I continued to do for a long time, until I passed the night andawoke possessing not a piece of silver nor one of gold. and I saidwithin myself, This is the work of the Devil! And I repeated theseverses: Poverty causeth the lustre of a man to grow dim, like the yellownessof the setting sun.When absent, he is not remembered among mankind. and when present,he shareth not their pleasures.In the market streets he shunneth notice. and in desert placeshe poureth forth his tears.By Allah! a man, among his own relations, when afflicted with poverty,is as a stranger!With these reflections I walked forth into Beyn el areyn, andproceeded thence to Bab Zuweyleh, where I found the people crowdingtogether, so that the gate was stopped up by their number. and, asdestiny willed, I saw there a trooper, and, unintentionally pressingagainst him, my hand came in contact with his pocket, and I felt it, andfound that it contained a purse. and I caught hold of the purse, andtook it from his pocket. But the trooper felt that his pocket waslightened, and, putting his hand into it, found nothing. upon which helooked aside at me, and raised his hand with the mace, andstruck me upon my head. I fell to the ground, and the people surroundedus, and seized the bridle of the trooper's horse, saying, On account ofthe crowd dost thou strike this young man such a blow? But he called outto them and said, This is a robber! On hearing this I feared. The peoplearound me said, This is a comely young man, and hath taken nothing.While some, however, believed this, others disbelieved. and after manywords, the people dragged me along, desiring to liberate me: but, as itwas predestined, there came at this moment the Walee and othermagistrates entering the gate, and, seeing the people surrounding me andthe trooper, the Walee said, What is the news? The trooper answered, ByAllah, O Emeer, this is a robber: I had in my pocket a blue pursecontaining twenty pieces of gold. and he took it while I was pressed bythe crowd. Was any one with thee? asked the Walee. The trooperanswered, No. And the Walee called out to the chief of his servants,saying, Seize him and search him. So he seized me. and protection waswithdrawn from me. and the Walee said to him, Strip him of all that isupon him. And when he did so, they found the purse in my clothes: andthe Walee, taking it, counted the money, and found it to be twentypieces of gold, as the trooper had said. whereupon he was enraged, andcalled out to his attendants, saying, Bring him forward. They,therefore, brought me before him, and he said to me, O young man, tellthe truth. Didst thou steal this purse? And I hung down my head towardsthe ground, saying within myself, If I answer that I did not steal it,it will be useless, for he hath produced it from my clothes. and if Isay, I stole it, I fall into trouble. I then raised my head, and said,Yes, I took it. And when the Walee heard these words, he wondered, andcalled witnesses, who presented themselves, and gave their testimony tomy confession. All this took place at Bab Zuweyleh. The Walee thenordered the executioner to cut off my hand. and he cut off my righthand. but the heart of the trooper was moved with compassion forme, and he interceded for me that I should not be killed: so theWalee left me and departed. The people however continued around me, andgave me to drink a cup of wine. and the trooper gave me the purse,saying, Thou art a comely youth, and it is not fit that thou shouldstbe a thief. And I took it from him, and addressed him with theseverses: By Allah! good sir, I was not a robber. nor was I a thief, O, bestof mankind!But fortune's vicissitudes overthrew me suddenly, and anxietyand trouble and poverty overpowered me.I cast it not. but it was the Deity who cast an arrow that threwdown the kingly diadem from my head.The trooper then left me and departed, after having given me the purse,and I went my way. but first I wrapped my hand in a piece ofrag, and put it in my bosom. My condition thus altered, andmy countenance pallid in consequence of my sufferings, I walked to thea'ah, and, in a disordered state of mind, threw myself upon the bed. Mywife, seeing my complexion thus changed, said to me, What hath painedthee, and wherefore do I see thee thus altered? I answered her, My headacheth, and I am not well. And on hearing this she was vexed, and becameill on my account, and said, Burn not my heart, O my master! Sit up, andraise thy head, and tell me what hath happened to thee this day. for Iread a tale in thy face. Abstain from speaking to me, I replied. Andshe wept, and said, It seemeth that thou art tired of us. for I see theeto be conducting thyself in a manner contrary to thy usual habit. Thenshe wept again, and continued addressing me, though I made her no reply,until the approach of night, when she placed some food before me. but Iabstained from it, fearing that she should see me eat with my left hand,and said, I have no desire to eat at present. She then said again, Tellme what hath happened to thee this day, and wherefore I see thee anxiousand broken hearted. I answered, I will presently tell thee at myleisure. And she put the wine towards me, saying, Take it. for it willdispel thine anxiety. and thou must drink, and tell me thy story. Ireplied, therefore, If it must be so, give me to drink with thy hand.And she filled a cup and drank it. and then filled it again and handedit to me, and I took it from her with my left hand, and, while tears ranfrom my eyes, I repeated these verses: When God willeth an event to befall a man who is endowed with reasonand hearing and sight,He deafeneth his ears, and blindeth his heart, and draweth his reasonfrom him as a hair.Till, having fulfilled his purpose against him, He restoreth himhis reason that he may be admonished.Having thus said, I wept again. and when she saw me do so, she uttered aloud cry, and said, What is the reason of thy weeping? Thou hast burnedmy heart! And wherefore didst thou take the cup with thy left hand? Ianswered her, I have a boil upon my right hand. Then put it forth, saidshe, that I may open it for thee. It is not yet, I replied, the propertime for opening it. and continue not to ask me. for I will not put itforth at present. I then drank the contents of the cup, and shecontinued to hand me the wine until intoxication overcame me, and Ifell asleep in the place where I was sitting. upon which she discoveredthat my right arm was without a hand, and, searching me, saw the pursecontaining the gold.Grief, such as none else experienceth, overcame her at the sight. andshe suffered incessant torment on my account until the morning, when Iawoke, and found that she had prepared for me a dish composed of fourboiled fowls, which she placed before me. She then gave me to drink acup of wine. and I ate and drank, and put down the purse, and was aboutto depart. but she said, Whither wouldst thou go? I answered, To such aplace, to dispel somewhat of the anxiety which oppresseth my heart. Gonot, said she. but rather sit down again. So I sat down, and she said tome, Hath thy love of me become so excessive that thou hast expended allthy wealth upon me, and lost thy hand? I take thee, then, as witnessagainst me, and God also is witness, that I will never desert thee. andthou shalt see the truth of my words. Immediately, therefore, she sentfor witnesses, who came. and she said to them, Write my contract ofmarriage to this young man, and bear witness that I have received thedowry. And they did as she desired them. after which she said, Bearwitness that all my property which is in this chest, and all my memlooksand female slaves, belong to this young man. Accordingly, they declaredthemselves witnesses of her declaration, and I accepted the property,and they departed after they had received their fees. She then took meby my hand, and, having led me to a closet, opened a large chest, andsaid to me, See what is contained in this chest. I looked, therefore.and lo, it was full of handkerchiefs. and she said, This is thyproperty. which I have received from thee: for every time that thougavest me a handkerchief containing fifty pieces of gold, I wrapped itup, and threw it into this chest: take, then, thy property. for God hathrestored it to thee, and thou art now of high estate. Fate hathafflicted thee on my account so that thou hast lost thy right hand, andI am unable to compensate thee: if I should sacrifice my life, it wouldbe but a small thing, and thy generosity would still have surpassedmine. She then added, Now take possession of thy property. So Ireceived it. and she transferred the contents of her chest to mine,adding her property to mine which I had given her. My heart rejoiced, myanxiety ceased, and I approached and kissed her, and made myself merryby drinking with her. after which she said again, Thou hast sacrificedall thy wealth and thy hand through love of me, and how can I compensatethee? By Allah, if I gave my life for love of thee, it were but a smallthing, and I should not do justice to thy claims upon me. She thenwrote a deed of gift transferring to me all her apparel, and herornaments of gold and jewels, and her houses and other possessions. andshe passed that night in grief on my account, having heard my relationof the accident that had befallen me.Thus we remained less than a month, during which time she became moreand more infirm and disordered. and she endured no more than fifty daysbefore she was numbered among the people of the other world. So Iprepared her funeral, and deposited her body in the earth, and havingcaused recitations of the ur an to be performed for her, and given aconsiderable sum of money in alms for her sake, returned from the tomb.I found that she had possessed abundant wealth, and houses and lands,and among her property were the store rooms of sesame of which I sold tothee the contents of one. and I was not prevented from settling withthee during this period but by my being busied in selling the remainder,the price of which I have not yet entirely received. Now I desire ofthee that thou wilt not oppose me in that which I am about to say tothee. since I have eaten of thy food: I give thee the price of thesesame, which is in thy hands. This which I have told thee was thecause of my eating with my left hand.I replied, Thou hast treated me with kindness and generosity: and hethen said, Thou must travel with me to my country. for I have boughtmerchandise of Cairo and Alexandria. Wilt thou accompany me? Ianswered, Yes. and promised him that I would be ready by the first dayof the following month. So I sold all that I possessed, and, havingbought merchandise with the produce, travelled with the young man tothis thy country, where he sold his merchandise and bought other in itsstead, after which he returned to the land of Egypt: but it was my lotto remain here, and to experience that which hath befallen me this nightduring my absence from my native country. Now is not this, O King ofthe age, more wonderful than the story of the humpback?The King replied, Ye must be hanged, all of you! And upon this, theSulan's steward advanced towards the King, and said, If thou permit me,I will relate to thee a story that I happened to hear just before Ifound this humpback. and if it be more wonderful than the eventsrelating to him, wilt thou grant us our lives? The King answered, Tellthy story: and he began thus: 