There was once an old woman who hired a servant girl to keep her house clean and tidy. She told the girl to rise early and sweep out every corner, but to be sure not to sweep the chimney, and every night she went through the same, saying she was never to put her brush up the chimney. One morning, however, the servant thought she would put the brush up the chimney. She did so, and down fell a bag of money. She took it up and ran away.As she went along she came to a gate, which spoke, and said to her, "Pretty maiden, will you open me, for I have not been opened for many a year?""Open yourself," said the girl. "I have no time to open you."So she went on, and came to a cow, and the cow said, "Pretty maiden, stop and milk em, for I have not been milked for many a day.""Milk yourself," said the girl. "I have no time to milk you."So she went on, and came to a mill, and the mill said, "Pretty maiden, will you turn me, for I have not been turned for many a day.""Turn yourself," said the girl. "I have no time to turn you." By this time the girl began to get tired, so he hid the bag in the mill hopper.When the old woman got up in the morning, and missed the girl, she went straight to the chimney, and found her money was gone.So she set off directly after the girl, and when she came to the gate she said, "Gate o' mine, gate o' mine, have you seen a maid o' mine, with a ji jaller bag, and a long leather bag, with all the money in that ever I had?"And the gate said, "Further on."Then she went on and came to the cow, of whom she asked the same question, and got the same answer.And she went on and came to the mill, and said, "Mill o' mine, have you seen a maid o' mine, with a ji jaller bag, and a long leather bag, with all the money in it that e'er I had?"And the mill said, "Down the mill hopper."So the old woman got her money again, and soon she hired a new girl, and told her the very same things she had told the first. The new girl did just like the first, and ran away. But when she came to the gate she opened it, and when she came to the cow she milked it, and when she came to the mill she turned it.So when the old woman went after the girl, and asked the gate, the cow, and the mill whether they had seen her, there was no answer, and the girl got away with the bag of money.