Long, long ago, there lived an old bamboo wood cutter. He was very poorand sad also, for no child had Heaven sent to cheer his old age, and inhis heart there was no hope of rest from work till he died and was laidin the quiet grave. Every morning he went forth into the woods andhills wherever the bamboo reared its lithe green plumes against thesky. When he had made his choice, he would cut down these feathers ofthe forest, and splitting them lengthwise, or cutting them into joints,would carry the bamboo wood home and make it into various articles forthe household, and he and his old wife gained a small livelihood byselling them.One morning as usual he had gone out to his work, and having found anice clump of bamboos, had set to work to cut some of them down.Suddenly the green grove of bamboos was flooded with a bright softlight, as if the full moon had risen over the spot. Looking round inastonishment, he saw that the brilliance was streaming from one bamboo.The old man, full of wonder, dropped his ax and went towards the light.On nearer approach he saw that this soft splendor came from a hollow inthe green bamboo stem, and still more wonderful to behold, in the midstof the brilliance stood a tiny human being, only three inches inheight, and exquisitely beautiful in appearance."You must be sent to be my child, for I find you here among the bambooswhere lies my daily work," said the old man, and taking the littlecreature in his hand he took it home to his wife to bring up. The tinygirl was so exceedingly beautiful and so small, that the old woman puther into a basket to safeguard her from the least possibility of beinghurt in any way.The old couple were now very happy, for it had been a lifelong regretthat they had no children of their own, and with joy they now expendedall the love of their old age on the little child who had come to themin so marvelous a manner.From this time on, the old man often found gold in the notches of thebamboos when he hewed them down and cut them up. not only gold, butprecious stones also, so that by degrees he became rich. He builthimself a fine house, and was no longer known as the poor bamboowoodcutter, but as a wealthy man.Three months passed quickly away, and in that time the bamboo childhad, wonderful to say, become a full grown girl, so her foster parentsdid up her hair and dressed her in beautiful kimonos. She was of suchwondrous beauty that they placed her behind the screens like aprincess, and allowed no one to see her, waiting upon her themselves.It seemed as if she were made of light, for the house was filled with asoft shining, so that even in the dark of night it was like daytime.Her presence seemed to have a benign influence on those there. Wheneverthe old man felt sad, he had only to look upon his foster daughter andhis sorrow vanished, and he became as happy as when he was a youth.At last the day came for the naming of their new found child, so theold couple called in a celebrated name giver, and he gave her the nameof Princess Moonlight, because her body gave forth so much soft brightlight that she might have been a daughter of the Moon God.For three days the festival was kept up with song and dance and music.All the friends and relations of the old couple were present, and greatwas their enjoyment of the festivities held to celebrate the naming ofPrincess Moonlight. Everyone who saw her declared that there never hadbeen seen any one so lovely. all the beauties throughout the length andbreadth of the land would grow pale beside her, so they said. The fameof the Princess's loveliness spread far and wide, and many were thesuitors who desired to win her hand, or even so much as to see her.Suitors from far and near posted themselves outside the house, and madelittle holes in the fence, in the hope of catching a glimpse of thePrincess as she went from one room to the other along the veranda. Theystayed there day and night, sacrificing even their sleep for a chanceof seeing her, but all in vain. Then they approached the house, andtried to speak to the old man and his wife or some of the servants, butnot even this was granted them.Still, in spite of all this disappointment they stayed on day afterday, and night after night, and counted it as nothing, so great wastheir desire to see the Princess.At last, however, most of the men, seeing how hopeless their quest was,lost heart and hope both, and returned to their homes. All except fiveKnights, whose ardor and determination, instead of waning, seemed towax greater with obstacles. These five men even went without theirmeals, and took snatches of whatever they could get brought to them, sothat they might always stand outside the dwelling. They stood there inall weathers, in sunshine and in rain.Sometimes they wrote letters to the Princess, but no answer wasvouchsafed to them. Then when letters failed to draw any reply, theywrote poems to her telling her of the hopeless love which kept themfrom sleep, from food, from rest, and even from their homes. StillPrinces Moonlight gave no sign of having received their verses.In this hopeless state the winter passed. The snow and frost and thecold winds gradually gave place to the gentle warmth of spring. Thenthe summer came, and the sun burned white and scorching in the heavensabove and on the earth beneath, and still these faithful Knights keptwatch and waited. At the end of these long months they called out tothe old bamboo cutter and entreated him to have some mercy upon themand to show them the Princess, but he answered only that as he was nother real father he could not insist on her obeying him against herwishes.The five Knights on receiving this stern answer returned to theirseveral homes, and pondered over the best means of touching the proudPrincess's heart, even so much as to grant them a hearing. They tooktheir rosaries in hand and knelt before their household shrines, andburned precious incense, praying to Buddha to give them their heart'sdesire. Thus several days passed, but even so they could not rest intheir homes.So again they set out for the bamboo cutter's house. This time the oldman came out to see them, and they asked him to let them know if it wasthe Princess's resolution never to see any man whatsoever, and theyimplored him to speak for them and to tell her the greatness of theirlove, and how long they had waited through the cold of winter and theheat of summer, sleepless and roofless through all weathers, withoutfood and without rest, in the ardent hope of winning her, and they werewilling to consider this long vigil as pleasure if she would but givethem one chance of pleading their cause with her.The old man lent a willing ear to their tale of love, for in his inmostheart he felt sorry for these faithful suitors and would have liked tosee his lovely foster daughter married to one of them. So he went in toPrincess Moonlight and said reverently:"Although you have always seemed to me to be a heavenly being, yet Ihave had the trouble of bringing you up as my own child and you havebeen glad of the protection of my roof. Will you refuse to do as Iwish?"Then Princess Moonlight replied that there was nothing she would not dofor him, that she honored and loved him as her own father, and that asfor herself she could not remember the time before she came to earth.The old man listened with great joy as she spoke these dutiful words.Then he told her how anxious he was to see her safely and happilymarried before he died."I am an old man, over seventy years of age, and my end may come anytime now. It is necessary and right that you should see these fivesuitors and choose one of them.""Oh, why," said the Princess in distress, "must I do this? I have nowish to marry now.""I found you," answered the old man, "many years ago, when you were alittle creature three inches high, in the midst of a great white light.The light streamed from the bamboo in which you were hid and led me toyou. So I have always thought that you were more than mortal woman.While I am alive it is right for you to remain as you are if you wishto do so, but some day I shall cease to be and who will take care ofyou then? Therefore I pray you to meet these five brave men one at atime and make up your mind to marry one of them!"Then the Princess answered that she felt sure that she was not asbeautiful as perhaps report made her out to be, and that even if sheconsented to marry any one of them, not really knowing her before, hisheart might change afterwards. So as she did not feel sure of them,even though her father told her they were worthy Knights, she did notfeel it wise to see them."All you say is very reasonable," said the old man, "but what kind ofmen will you consent to see? I do not call these five men who havewaited on you for months, light hearted. They have stood outside thishouse through the winter and the summer, often denying themselves foodand sleep so that they may win you. What more can you demand?"Then Princess Moonlight said she must make further trial of their lovebefore she would grant their request to interview her. The fivewarriors were to prove their love by each bringing her from distantcountries something that she desired to possess.That same evening the suitors arrived and began to play their flutes inturn, and to sing their self composed songs telling of their great andtireless love. The bamboo cutter went out to them and offered them hissympathy for all they had endured and all the patience they had shownin their desire to win his foster daughter. Then he gave them hermessage, that she would consent to marry whosoever was successful inbringing her what she wanted. This was to test them.The five all accepted the trial, and thought it an excellent plan, forit would prevent jealousy between them.Princess Moonlight then sent word to the First Knight that sherequested him to bring her the stone bowl which had belonged to Buddhain India.The Second Knight was asked to go to the Mountain of Horai, said to besituated in the Eastern Sea, and to bring her a branch of the wonderfultree that grew on its summit. The roots of this tree were of silver,the trunk of gold, and the branches bore as fruit white jewels.The Third Knight was told to go to China and search for the fire ratand to bring her its skin.The Fourth Knight was told to search for the dragon that carried on itshead the stone radiating five colors and to bring the stone to her.The Fifth Knight was to find the swallow which carried a shell in itsstomach and to bring the shell to her.The old man thought these very hard tasks and hesitated to carry themessages, but the Princess would make no other conditions. So hercommands were issued word for word to the five men who, when they heardwhat was required of them, were all disheartened and disgusted at whatseemed to them the impossibility of the tasks given them and returnedto their own homes in despair.But after a time, when they thought of the Princess, the love in theirhearts revived for her, and they resolved to make an attempt to getwhat she desired of them.The First Knight sent word to the Princess that he was starting outthat day on the quest of Buddha's bowl, and he hoped soon to bring itto her. But he had not the courage to go all the way to India, for inthose days traveling was very difficult and full of danger, so he wentto one of the temples in Kyoto and took a stone bowl from the altarthere, paying the priest a large sum of money for it. He then wrappedit in a cloth of gold and, waiting quietly for three years, returnedand carried it to the old man.Princess Moonlight wondered that the Knight should have returned sosoon. She took the bowl from its gold wrapping, expecting it to makethe room full of light, but it did not shine at all, so she knew thatit was a sham thing and not the true bowl of Buddha. She returned it atonce and refused to see him. The Knight threw the bowl away andreturned to his home in despair. He gave up now all hopes of everwinning the Princess.The Second Knight told his parents that he needed change of air for hishealth, for he was ashamed to tell them that love for the PrincessMoonlight was the real cause of his leaving them. He then left hishome, at the same time sending word to the Princess that he was settingout for Mount Horai in the hope of getting her a branch of the gold andsilver tree which she so much wished to have. He only allowed hisservants to accompany him half way, and then sent them back. He reachedthe seashore and embarked on a small ship, and after sailing away forthree days he landed and employed several carpenters to build him ahouse contrived in such a way that no one could get access to it. Hethen shut himself up with six skilled jewelers, and endeavored to makesuch a gold and silver branch as he thought would satisfy the Princessas having come from the wonderful tree growing on Mount Horai. Everyone whom he had asked declared that Mount Horai belonged to the land offable and not to fact.When the branch was finished, he took his journey home and tried tomake himself look as if he were wearied and worn out with travel. Heput the jeweled branch into a lacquer box and carried it to thebamboo cutter, begging him to present it to the Princess.The old man was quite deceived by the travel stained appearance of theKnight, and thought that he had only just returned from his longjourney with the branch. So he tried to persuade the Princess toconsent to see the man. But she remained silent and looked very sad.The old man began to take out the branch and praised it as a wonderfultreasure to be found nowhere in the whole land. Then he spoke of theKnight, how handsome and how brave he was to have undertaken a journeyto so remote a place as the Mount of Horai.Princess Moonlight took the branch in her hand and looked at itcarefully. She then told her foster parent that she knew it wasimpossible for the man to have obtained a branch from the gold andsilver tree growing on Mount Horai so quickly or so easily, and she wassorry to say she believed it artificial.The old man then went out to the expectant Knight, who had nowapproached the house, and asked where he had found the branch. Then theman did not scruple to make up a long story."Two years ago I took a ship and started in search of Mount Horai.After going before the wind for some time I reached the far EasternSea. Then a great storm arose and I was tossed about for many days,losing all count of the points of the compass, and finally we wereblown ashore on an unknown island. Here I found the place inhabited bydemons who at one time threatened to kill and eat me. However, Imanaged to make friends with these horrible creatures, and they helpedme and my sailors to repair the boat, and I set sail again. Our foodgave out, and we suffered much from sickness on board. At last, on thefive hundredth day from the day of starting, I saw far off on thehorizon what looked like the peak of a mountain. On nearer approach,this proved to be an island, in the center of which rose a highmountain. I landed, and after wandering about for two or three days, Isaw a shining being coming towards me on the beach, holding in hishands a golden bowl. I went up to him and asked him if I had, by goodchance, found the island of Mount Horai, and he answered:""'Yes, this is Mount Horai!'""With much difficulty I climbed to the summit, here stood the goldentree growing with silver roots in the ground. The wonders of thatstrange land are many, and if I began to tell you about them I couldnever stop. In spite of my wish to stay there long, on breaking off thebranch I hurried back. With utmost speed it has taken me four hundreddays to get back, and, as you see, my clothes are still damp fromexposure on the long sea voyage. I have not even waited to change myraiment, so anxious was I to bring the branch to the Princess quickly."Just at this moment the six jewelers, who had been employed on themaking of the branch, but not yet paid by the Knight, arrived at thehouse and sent in a petition to the Princess to be paid for theirlabor. They said that they had worked for over a thousand days makingthe branch of gold, with its silver twigs and its jeweled fruit, thatwas now presented to her by the Knight, but as yet they had receivednothing in payment. So this Knight's deception was thus found out, andthe Princess, glad of an escape from one more importunate suitor, wasonly too pleased to send back the branch. She called in the workmen andhad them paid liberally, and they went away happy. But on the way homethey were overtaken by the disappointed man, who beat them till theywere nearly dead, for letting out the secret, and they barely escapedwith their lives. The Knight then returned home, raging in his heart.and in despair of ever winning the Princess gave up society and retiredto a solitary life among the mountains.Now the Third Knight had a friend in China, so he wrote to him to getthe skin of the fire rat. The virtue of any part of this animal wasthat no fire could harm it. He promised his friend any amount of moneyhe liked to ask if only he could get him the desired article. As soonas the news came that the ship on which his friend had sailed home hadcome into port, he rode seven days on horseback to meet him. He handedhis friend a large sum of money, and received the fire rat's skin. Whenhe reached home he put it carefully in a box and sent it in to thePrincess while he waited outside for her answer.The bamboo cutter took the box from the Knight and, as usual, carriedit in to her and tried to coax her to see the Knight at once, butPrincess Moonlight refused, saying that she must first put the skin totest by putting it into the fire. If it were the real thing it wouldnot burn. So she took off the crape wrapper and opened the box, andthen threw the skin into the fire. The skin crackled and burnt up atonce, and the Princess knew that this man also had not fulfilled hisword. So the Third Knight failed also.Now the Fourth Knight was no more enterprising than the rest. Insteadof starting out on the quest of the dragon bearing on its head thefive color radiating jewel, he called all his servants together andgave them the order to seek for it far and wide in Japan and in China,and he strictly forbade any of them to return till they had found it.His numerous retainers and servants started out in differentdirections, with no intention, however, of obeying what they consideredan impossible order. They simply took a holiday, went to pleasantcountry places together, and grumbled at their master'sunreasonableness.The Knight meanwhile, thinking that his retainers could not fail tofind the jewel, repaired to his house, and fitted it up beautifully forthe reception of the Princess, he felt so sure of winning her.One year passed away in weary waiting, and still his men did not returnwith the dragon jewel. The Knight became desperate. He could wait nolonger, so taking with him only two men he hired a ship and commandedthe captain to go in search of the dragon. the captain and the sailorsrefused to undertake what they said was an absurd search, but theKnight compelled them at last to put out to sea.When they had been but a few days out they encountered a great stormwhich lasted so long that, by the time its fury abated, the Knight haddetermined to give up the hunt of the dragon. They were at last blownon shore, for navigation was primitive in those days. Worn out with histravels and anxiety, the fourth suitor gave himself up to rest. He hadcaught a very heavy cold, and had to go to bed with a swollen face.The governor of the place, hearing of his plight, sent messengers witha letter inviting him to his house. While he was there thinking overall his troubles, his love for the Princess turned to anger, and heblamed her for all the hardships he had undergone. He thought that itwas quite probable she had wished to kill him so that she might be ridof him, and in order to carry out her wish had sent him upon hisimpossible quest.At this point all the servants he had sent out to find the jewel cameto see him, and were surprised to find praise instead of displeasureawaiting them. Their master told them that he was heartily sick ofadventure, and said that he never intended to go near the Princess'shouse again in the future.Like all the rest, the Fifth Knight failed in his quest he could notfind the swallow's shell.By this time the fame of Princess Moonlight's beauty had reached theears of the Emperor, and he sent one of the Court ladies to see if shewere really as lovely as report said. if so he would summon her to thePalace and make her one of the ladies in waiting.When the Court lady arrived, in spite of her father's entreaties,Princess Moonlight refused to see her. The Imperial messenger insisted,saying it was the Emperor's order. Then Princess Moonlight told the oldman that if she was forced to go to the Palace in obedience to theEmperor's order, she would vanish from the earth.When the Emperor was told of her persistence in refusing to obey hissummons, and that if pressed to obey she would disappear altogetherfrom sight, he determined to go and see her. So he planned to go on ahunting excursion in the neighborhood of the bamboo cutter's house, andsee the Princess himself. He sent word to the old man of his intention,and he received consent to the scheme. The next day the Emperor set outwith his retinue, which he soon managed to outride. He found thebamboo cutter's house and dismounted. He then entered the house andwent straight to where the Princess was sitting with her attendantmaidens.Never had he seen any one so wonderfully beautiful, and he could notbut look at her, for she was more lovely than any human being as sheshone in her own soft radiance. When Princess Moonlight became awarethat a stranger was looking at her she tried to escape from the room,but the Emperor caught her and begged her to listen to what he had tosay. Her only answer was to hide her face in her sleeves.The Emperor fell deeply in love with her, and begged her to come to theCourt, where he would give her a position of honor and everything shecould wish for. He was about to send for one of the Imperial palanquinsto take her back with him at once, saying that her grace and beautyshould adorn a Court, and not be hidden in a bamboo cutter's cottage.But the Princess stopped him. She said that if she were forced to go tothe Palace she would turn at once into a shadow, and even as she spokeshe began to lose her form. Her figure faded from his sight while helooked.The Emperor then promised to leave her free if only she would resumeher former shape, which she did.It was now time for him to return, for his retinue would be wonderingwhat had happened to their Royal master when they missed him for solong. So he bade her good by, and left the house with a sad heart.Princess Moonlight was for him the most beautiful woman in the world.all others were dark beside her, and he thought of her night and day.His Majesty now spent much of his time in writing poems, telling her ofhis love and devotion, and sent them to her, and though she refused tosee him again she answered with many verses of her own composing, whichtold him gently and kindly that she could never marry any one on thisearth. These little songs always gave him pleasure.At this time her foster parents noticed that night after night thePrincess would sit on her balcony and gaze for hours at the moon, in aspirit of the deepest dejection, ending always in a burst of tears. Onenight the old man found her thus weeping as if her heart were broken,and he besought her to tell him the reason of her sorrow.With many tears she told him that he had guessed rightly when hesupposed her not to belong to this world that she had in truth comefrom the moon, and that her time on earth would soon be over. On thefifteenth day of that very month of August her friends from the moonwould come to fetch her, and she would have to return. Her parents wereboth there, but having spent a lifetime on the earth she had forgottenthem, and also the moon world to which she belonged. It made her weep,she said, to think of leaving her kind foster parents, and the homewhere she had been happy for so long.When her attendants heard this they were very sad, and could not eat ordrink for sadness at the thought that the Princess was so soon to leavethem.The Emperor, as soon as the news was carried to him, sent messengers tothe house to find out if the report were true or not.The old bamboo cutter went out to meet the Imperial messengers. Thelast few days of sorrow had told upon the old man. he had aged greatly,and looked much more than his seventy years. Weeping bitterly, he toldthem that the report was only too true, but he intended, however, tomake prisoners of the envoys from the moon, and to do all he could toprevent the Princess from being carried back.The men returned and told His Majesty all that had passed. On thefifteenth day of that month the Emperor sent a guard of two thousandwarriors to watch the house. One thousand stationed themselves on theroof, another thousand kept watch round all the entrances of the house.All were well trained archers, with bows and arrows. The bamboo cutterand his wife hid Princess Moonlight in an inner room.The old man gave orders that no one was to sleep that night, all in thehouse were to keep a strict watch, and be ready to protect thePrincess. With these precautions, and the help of the Emperor'smen at arms, he hoped to withstand the moon messengers, but thePrincess told him that all these measures to keep her would be useless,and that when her people came for her nothing whatever could preventthem from carrying out their purpose. Even the Emperors men would bepowerless. Then she added with tears that she was very, very sorry toleave him and his wife, whom she had learned to love as her parents,that if she could do as she liked she would stay with them in their oldage, and try to make some return for all the love and kindness they hadshowered upon her during all her earthly life.The night wore on! The yellow harvest moon rose high in the heavens,flooding the world asleep with her golden light. Silence reigned overthe pine and the bamboo forests, and on the roof where the thousandmen at arms waited.Then the night grew gray towards the dawn and all hoped that the dangerwas over that Princess Moonlight would not have to leave them afterall. Then suddenly the watchers saw a cloud form round the moon andwhile they looked this cloud began to roll earthwards. Nearer andnearer it came, and every one saw with dismay that its course laytowards the house.In a short time the sky was entirely obscured, till at last the cloudlay over the dwelling only ten feet off the ground. In the midst of thecloud there stood a flying chariot, and in the chariot a band ofluminous beings. One amongst them who looked like a king and appearedto be the chief stepped out of the chariot, and, poised in air, calledto the old man to come out."The time has come," he said, "for Princess Moonlight to return to themoon from whence she came. She committed a grave fault, and as apunishment was sent to live down here for a time. We know what goodcare you have taken of the Princess, and we have rewarded you for thisand have sent you wealth and prosperity. We put the gold in the bamboosfor you to find.""I have brought up this Princess for twenty years and never once hasshe done a wrong thing, therefore the lady you are seeking cannot bethis one," said the old man. "I pray you to look elsewhere."Then the messenger called aloud, saying:"Princess Moonlight, come out from this lowly dwelling. Rest not hereanother moment."At these words the screens of the Princess's room slid open of theirown accord, revealing the Princess shining in her own radiance, brightand wonderful and full of beauty.The messenger led her forth and placed her in the chariot. She lookedback, and saw with pity the deep sorrow of the old man. She spoke tohim many comforting words, and told him that it was not her will toleave him and that he must always think of her when looking at the moon.The bamboo cutter implored to be allowed to accompany her, but this wasnot allowed. The Princess took off her embroidered outer garment andgave it to him as a keepsake.One of the moon beings in the chariot held a wonderful coat of wings,another had a phial full of the Elixir of Life which was given thePrincess to drink. She swallowed a little and was about to give therest to the old man, but she was prevented from doing so.The robe of wings was about to be put upon her shoulders, but she said:"Wait a little. I must not forget my good friend the Emperor. I mustwrite him once more to say good by while still in this human form."In spite of the impatience of the messengers and charioteers she keptthem waiting while she wrote. She placed the phial of the Elixir ofLife with the letter, and, giving them to the old man, she asked him todeliver them to the Emperor.Then the chariot began to roll heavenwards towards the moon, and asthey all gazed with tearful eyes at the receding Princess, the dawnbroke, and in the rosy light of day the moon chariot and all in it werelost amongst the fleecy clouds that were now wafted across the sky onthe wings of the morning wind.Princess Moonlight's letter was carried to the Palace. His Majesty wasafraid to touch the Elixir of Life, so he sent it with the letter tothe top of the most sacred mountain in the land. Mount Fuji, and therethe Royal emissaries burnt it on the summit at sunrise. So to this daypeople say there is smoke to be seen rising from the top of Mount Fujito the clouds.