loud cheers. but the Director, Fire Eater, happens along and poorPinocchio almost loses his life.Quick as a flash, Pinocchio disappeared into the Marionette Theater. Andthen something happened which almost caused a riot.The curtain was up and the performance had started.Harlequin and Pulcinella were reciting on the stage and, as usual, theywere threatening each other with sticks and blows.The theater was full of people, enjoying the spectacle and laughing tillthey cried at the antics of the two Marionettes.The play continued for a few minutes, and then suddenly, without anywarning, Harlequin stopped talking. Turning toward the audience, hepointed to the rear of the orchestra, yelling wildly at the same time:"Look, look! Am I asleep or awake? Or do I really see Pinocchio there?""Yes, yes! It is Pinocchio!" screamed Pulcinella."It is! It is!" shrieked Signora Rosaura, peeking in from the side ofthe stage."It is Pinocchio! It is Pinocchio!" yelled all the Marionettes, pouringout of the wings. "It is Pinocchio. It is our brother Pinocchio! Hurrahfor Pinocchio!""Pinocchio, come up to me!" shouted Harlequin. "Come to the arms of yourwooden brothers!"At such a loving invitation, Pinocchio, with one leap from the back ofthe orchestra, found himself in the front rows. With another leap,he was on the orchestra leader's head. With a third, he landed on thestage.It is impossible to describe the shrieks of joy, the warm embraces, theknocks, and the friendly greetings with which that strange company ofdramatic actors and actresses received Pinocchio.It was a heart rending spectacle, but the audience, seeing that the playhad stopped, became angry and began to yell:"The play, the play, we want the play!"The yelling was of no use, for the Marionettes, instead of going onwith their act, made twice as much racket as before, and, lifting upPinocchio on their shoulders, carried him around the stage in triumph.At that very moment, the Director came out of his room. He had such afearful appearance that one look at him would fill you with horror. Hisbeard was as black as pitch, and so long that it reached from his chindown to his feet. His mouth was as wide as an oven, his teeth likeyellow fangs, and his eyes, two glowing red coals. In his huge, hairyhands, a long whip, made of green snakes and black cats' tails twistedtogether, swished through the air in a dangerous way.At the unexpected apparition, no one dared even to breathe. One couldalmost hear a fly go by. Those poor Marionettes, one and all, trembledlike leaves in a storm."Why have you brought such excitement into my theater." the huge fellowasked Pinocchio with the voice of an ogre suffering with a cold."Believe me, your Honor, the fault was not mine.""Enough! Be quiet! I'll take care of you later."As soon as the play was over, the Director went to the kitchen, wherea fine big lamb was slowly turning on the spit. More wood was needed tofinish cooking it. He called Harlequin and Pulcinella and said to them:"Bring that Marionette to me! He looks as if he were made ofwell seasoned wood. He'll make a fine fire for this spit."Harlequin and Pulcinella hesitated a bit. Then, frightened by a lookfrom their master, they left the kitchen to obey him. A few minuteslater they returned, carrying poor Pinocchio, who was wriggling andsquirming like an eel and crying pitifully:"Father, save me! I don't want to die! I don't want to die!"