ONCE upon a time, in the reign of King Cambrinus, there lived atAvesnes one of his lords, who was the finest man by which I mean thefattest in the whole country of Flanders. He ate four meals a day,slept twelve hours out of the twenty four, and the only thing he everdid was to shoot at small birds with his bow and arrow.Still, with all his practice he shot very badly, he was so fat andheavy, and as he grew daily fatter, he was at last obliged to give upwalking, and be dragged about in a wheel chair, and the people made funof him, and gave him the name of my Lord Tubby.Now, the only trouble that Lord Tubby had was about his son, whom heloved very much, although they were not in the least alike, for theyoung Prince was as thin as a cuckoo. And what vexed him more than allwas, that though the young ladies throughout all his lands did theirbest to make the Prince fall in love with them, he would have nothing tosay to any of them, and told his father he did not wish to marry.Instead of chatting with them in the dusk, he wandered about the woods,whispering to the moon. No wonder the young ladies thought him very odd,but they liked him all the better for that. and as he had received athis birth the name of Desire, they all called him d'Amour Desire.'What is the matter with you?' his father often said to him. 'You haveeverything you can possibly wish for: a good bed, good food, and tunsfull of beer. The only thing you want, in order to become as fat as apig, is a wife that can bring you broad, rich lands. So marry, and youwill be perfectly happy.''I ask nothing better than to marry,' replied Desire, 'but I have neverseen a woman that pleases me. All the girls here are pink and white, andI am tired to death of their eternal lilie and roses.'My faith!' cried Tubby. 'do you want to marry a negress, and give megrandchildren as ugly as monkeys and as stupid as owls?''No, father, nothing of the sort. But there must be women somewhere inthe world who are neither pink nor white, and I tell you, once for all,that I will never marry until I have found one exactly to my taste.'