"It is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes mywhole body crackle. This is just the kind of wind to blow life intoone. How that great red thing up there is staring at me!" He meant thesun, who was just setting. "It shall not make me wink. I shallmanage to keep the pieces."He had two triangular pieces of tile in his head, instead of eyes.his mouth was made of an old broken rake, and was, of course,furnished with teeth. He had been brought into existence amidst thejoyous shouts of boys, the jingling of sleigh bells, and theslashing of whips. The sun went down, and the full moon rose, large,round, and clear, shining in the deep blue."There it comes again, from the other side," said the Snow Man,who supposed the sun was showing himself once more. "Ah, I havecured him of staring, though. now he may hang up there, and shine,that I may see myself. If I only knew how to manage to move awayfrom this place, I should so like to move. If I could, I wouldslide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do. but I don'tunderstand how. I don't even know how to run.""Away, away," barked the old yard dog. He was quite hoarse, andcould not pronounce "Bow wow" properly. He had once been an indoordog, and lay by the fire, and he had been hoarse ever since. "Thesun will make you run some day. I saw him, last winter, make yourpredecessor run, and his predecessor before him. Away, away, theyall have to go.""I don't understand you, comrade," said the Snow Man. "Is thatthing up yonder to teach me to run? I saw it running itself a littlewhile ago, and now it has come creeping up from the other side."You know nothing at all," replied the yard dog. "but then, you'veonly lately been patched up. What you see yonder is the moon, andthe one before it was the sun. It will come again to morrow, andmost likely teach you to run down into the ditch by the well. for Ithink the weather is going to change. I can feel such pricks and stabsin my left leg. I am sure there is going to be a change.""I don't understand him," said the Snow Man to himself. "but Ihave a feeling that he is talking of something very disagreeable.The one who stared so just now, and whom he calls the sun, is not myfriend. I can feel that too.""Away, away," barked the yard dog, and then he turned roundthree times, and crept into his kennel to sleep.There was really a change in the weather. Towards morning, a thickfog covered the whole country round, and a keen wind arose, so thatthe cold seemed to freeze one's bones. but when the sun rose, thesight was splendid. Trees and bushes were covered with hoar frost, andlooked like a forest of white coral. while on every twig glitteredfrozen dew drops. The many delicate forms concealed in summer byluxuriant foliage, were now clearly defined, and looked likeglittering lace work. From every twig glistened a white radiance.The birch, waving in the wind, looked full of life, like trees insummer. and its appearance was wondrously beautiful. And where the sunshone, how everything glittered and sparkled, as if diamond dust hadbeen strewn about. while the snowy carpet of the earth appeared asif covered with diamonds, from which countless lights gleamed,whiter than even the snow itself."This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come intothe garden with a young man. and they both stood still near the SnowMan, and contemplated the glittering scene. "Summer cannot show a morebeautiful sight," she exclaimed, while her eyes sparkled."And we can't have such a fellow as this in the summer time,"replied the young man, pointing to the Snow Man. "he is capital."The girl laughed, and nodded at the Snow Man, and then trippedaway over the snow with her friend. The snow creaked and crackledbeneath her feet, as if she had been treading on starch."Who are these two?" asked the Snow Man of the yard dog. "You havebeen here longer than I have. do you know them?""Of course I know them," replied the yard dog. "she has stroked myback many times, and he has given me a bone of meat. I never bitethose two.""But what are they?" asked the Snow Man."They are lovers," he replied. "they will go and live in thesame kennel by and by, and gnaw at the same bone. Away, away!""Are they the same kind of beings as you and I?" asked the SnowMan."Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard dog."Certainly people who were only born yesterday know very little. I cansee that in you. I have age and experience. I know every one here inthe house, and I know there was once a time when I did not lie outhere in the cold, fastened to a chain. Away, away!""The cold is delightful," said the Snow Man. "but do tell metell me. only you must not clank your chain so. for it jars allthrough me when you do that.""Away, away!" barked the yard dog. "I'll tell you. they said I wasa pretty little fellow once. then I used to lie in a velvet coveredchair, up at the master's house, and sit in the mistress's lap. Theyused to kiss my nose, and wipe my paws with an embroideredhandkerchief, and I was called 'Ami, dear Ami, sweet Ami.' But after awhile I grew too big for them, and they sent me away to thehousekeeper's room. so I came to live on the lower story. You can lookinto the room from where you stand, and see where I was master once.for I was indeed master to the housekeeper. It was certainly a smallerroom than those up stairs. but I was more comfortable. for I was notbeing continually taken hold of and pulled about by the children asI had been. I received quite as good food, or even better. I had myown cushion, and there was a stove it is the finest thing in theworld at this season of the year. I used to go under the stove, andlie down quite beneath it. Ah, I still dream of that stove. Away,away!""Does a stove look beautiful?" asked the Snow Man, "is it at alllike me?""It is just the reverse of you," said the dog. "it's as black as acrow, and has a long neck and a brass knob. it eats firewood, sothat fire spurts out of its mouth. We should keep on one side, orunder it, to be comfortable. You can see it through the window, fromwhere you stand."Then the Snow Man looked, and saw a bright polished thing with abrazen knob, and fire gleaming from the lower part of it. The Snow Manfelt quite a strange sensation come over him. it was very odd, he knewnot what it meant, and he could not account for it. But there arepeople who are not men of snow, who understand what it is. "'And whydid you leave her?" asked the Snow Man, for it seemed to him thatthe stove must be of the female sex. "How could you give up such acomfortable place?""I was obliged," replied the yard dog. "They turned me out ofdoors, and chained me up here. I had bitten the youngest of mymaster's sons in the leg, because he kicked away the bone I wasgnawing. 'Bone for bone,' I thought. but they were so angry, andfrom that time I have been fastened with a chain, and lost my bone.Don't you hear how hoarse I am. Away, away! I can't talk any more likeother dogs. Away, away, that is the end of it all."But the Snow Man was no longer listening. He was looking intothe housekeeper's room on the lower storey. where the stove stood onits four iron legs, looking about the same size as the Snow Manhimself. "What a strange crackling I feel within me," he said."Shall I ever get in there? It is an innocent wish, and innocentwishes are sure to be fulfilled. I must go in there and lean againsther, even if I have to break the window.""You must never go in there," said the yard dog, "for if youapproach the stove, you'll melt away, away.""I might as well go," said the Snow Man, "for I think I ambreaking up as it is."During the whole day the Snow Man stood looking in through thewindow, and in the twilight hour the room became still moreinviting, for from the stove came a gentle glow, not like the sun orthe moon. no, only the bright light which gleams from a stove whenit has been well fed. When the door of the stove was opened, theflames darted out of its mouth. this is customary with all stoves. Thelight of the flames fell directly on the face and breast of the SnowMan with a ruddy gleam. "I can endure it no longer," said he. "howbeautiful it looks when it stretches out its tongue?"The night was long, but did not appear so to the Snow Man, whostood there enjoying his own reflections, and crackling with the cold.In the morning, the window panes of the housekeeper's room werecovered with ice. They were the most beautiful ice flowers any SnowMan could desire, but they concealed the stove. These window paneswould not thaw, and he could see nothing of the stove, which hepictured to himself, as if it had been a lovely human being. Thesnow crackled and the wind whistled around him. it was just the kindof frosty weather a Snow Man might thoroughly enjoy. But he did notenjoy it. how, indeed, could he enjoy anything when he was "stovesick?""That is terrible disease for a Snow Man," said the yard dog. "Ihave suffered from it myself, but I got over it. Away, away," hebarked and then he added, "the weather is going to change." And theweather did change. it began to thaw. As the warmth increased, theSnow Man decreased. He said nothing and made no complaint, which isa sure sign. One morning he broke, and sunk down altogether. and,behold, where he had stood, something like a broomstick remainedsticking up in the ground. It was the pole round which the boys hadbuilt him up. "Ah, now I understand why he had such a great longingfor the stove," said the yard dog. "Why, there's the shovel that isused for cleaning out the stove, fastened to the pole." The Snow Manhad a stove scraper in his body. that was what moved him so. "But it'sall over now. Away, away." And soon the winter passed. "Away, away,"barked the hoarse yard dog. But the girls in the house sang,"Come from your fragrant home, green thyme.Stretch your soft branches, willow tree.The months are bringing the sweet spring time,When the lark in the sky sings joyfully.Come gentle sun, while the cuckoo sings,And I'll mock his note in my wanderings."And nobody thought any more of the Snow Man.