Cat and Fox and Marionette walked and walked and walked. At last, towardevening, dead tired, they came to the Inn of the Red Lobster."Let us stop here a while," said the Fox, "to eat a bite and rest fora few hours. At midnight we'll start out again, for at dawn tomorrow wemust be at the Field of Wonders."They went into the Inn and all three sat down at the same table.However, not one of them was very hungry.The poor Cat felt very weak, and he was able to eat only thirty fivemullets with tomato sauce and four portions of tripe with cheese.Moreover, as he was so in need of strength, he had to have four morehelpings of butter and cheese.The Fox, after a great deal of coaxing, tried his best to eat a little.The doctor had put him on a diet, and he had to be satisfied with asmall hare dressed with a dozen young and tender spring chickens. Afterthe hare, he ordered some partridges, a few pheasants, a couple ofrabbits, and a dozen frogs and lizards. That was all. He felt ill, hesaid, and could not eat another bite.Pinocchio ate least of all. He asked for a bite of bread and a few nutsand then hardly touched them. The poor fellow, with his mind on theField of Wonders, was suffering from a gold piece indigestion.Supper over, the Fox said to the Innkeeper:"Give us two good rooms, one for Mr. Pinocchio and the other for me andmy friend. Before starting out, we'll take a little nap. Remember tocall us at midnight sharp, for we must continue on our journey.""Yes, sir," answered the Innkeeper, winking in a knowing way at the Foxand the Cat, as if to say, "I understand."As soon as Pinocchio was in bed, he fell fast asleep and began to dream.He dreamed he was in the middle of a field. The field was full ofvines heavy with grapes. The grapes were no other than gold coins whichtinkled merrily as they swayed in the wind. They seemed to say, "Let himwho wants us take us!"Just as Pinocchio stretched out his hand to take a handful of them, hewas awakened by three loud knocks at the door. It was the Innkeeper whohad come to tell him that midnight had struck."Are my friends ready?" the Marionette asked him."Indeed, yes! They went two hours ago.""Why in such a hurry?""Unfortunately the Cat received a telegram which said that hisfirst born was suffering from chilblains and was on the point of death.He could not even wait to say good by to you.""Did they pay for the supper?""How could they do such a thing? Being people of great refinement, theydid not want to offend you so deeply as not to allow you the honor ofpaying the bill.""Too bad! That offense would have been more than pleasing to me," saidPinocchio, scratching his head."Where did my good friends say they would wait for me?" he added."At the Field of Wonders, at sunrise tomorrow morning."Pinocchio paid a gold piece for the three suppers and started on his waytoward the field that was to make him a rich man.He walked on, not knowing where he was going, for it was dark, so darkthat not a thing was visible. Round about him, not a leaf stirred. A fewbats skimmed his nose now and again and scared him half to death. Onceor twice he shouted, "Who goes there?" and the far away hills echoedback to him, "Who goes there? Who goes there? Who goes. . . ?"As he walked, Pinocchio noticed a tiny insect glimmering on the trunk ofa tree, a small being that glowed with a pale, soft light."Who are you?" he asked."I am the ghost of the Talking Cricket," answered the little being in afaint voice that sounded as if it came from a far away world."What do you want?" asked the Marionette."I want to give you a few words of good advice. Return home and give thefour gold pieces you have left to your poor old father who is weepingbecause he has not seen you for many a day.""Tomorrow my father will be a rich man, for these four gold pieces willbecome two thousand.""Don't listen to those who promise you wealth overnight, my boy. As arule they are either fools or swindlers! Listen to me and go home.""But I want to go on!""The hour is late!""I want to go on.""The night is very dark.""I want to go on.""The road is dangerous.""I want to go on.""Remember that boys who insist on having their own way, sooner or latercome to grief.""The same nonsense. Good by, Cricket.""Good night, Pinocchio, and may Heaven preserve you from the Assassins."There was silence for a minute and the light of the Talking Cricketdisappeared suddenly, just as if someone had snuffed it out. Once againthe road was plunged in darkness.