There was once a widower who had a daughter. This daughter was betweenten and twelve years old. Her father sent her to school, and as she wasall alone in the world commended her always to her teacher. Now, theteacher, seeing that the child had no mother, fell in love with thefather, and kept saying to the girl, "Ask your father if he would like mefor a wife."This she said to her every day, and at last the girl said, "Papa, theschool mistress is always asking me if you will marry her."The father said, "Eh! my daughter, if I take another wife, you willhave great troubles."But the girl persisted, and finally the father was persuaded to go oneevening to the school mistress' house. When she saw him she was wellpleased, and they settled the marriage in a few days. Poor child! Howbitterly she had to repent having found a stepmother so ungrateful andcruel to her! She sent her every day out on a terrace to water a pot ofbasil, and it was so dangerous that if she fell she would go into a largeriver.One day there came by a large eagle, and said to her, "What are youdoing her?" She was weeping because she saw how great the danger was offalling into the stream. The eagle said to her, "Get on my back, and Iwill carry you away, and you will be happier than with your new mamma."After a long journey they reached a great plain, where they found abeautiful palace all of crystal. the eagle knocked at the door and said,"Open, my ladies, open! for I have brought you a pretty girl." When thepeople in the palace opened the door, and saw that lovely girl, they wereamazed, and kissed and caressed her. Meanwhile the door was closed, andthey remained peaceful and contended.Let us return to the eagle, who thought she was doing a spite to thestepmother. One day the eagle flew away to the terrace where thestepmother was watering the basil. "Where is your daughter?" asked theeagle."Eh!" she replied, "perhaps she fell from this terrace and went intothe river. I have not heard from her in ten days."The eagle answered, "What a fool you are! I carried her away. seeingthat you treated her so harshly I carried her away to my fairies, and sheis very well." Then the eagle flew away.The stepmother, filled with rage and jealousy, called a witch from thecity, and said to her, "You see my daughter is alive, and is in the houseof some fairies of an eagle which often comes upon my terrace. now youmust do me the favor to find some way to kill this stepdaughter of mine,for I am afraid that some day or other she will return, and my husband,discovering this matter, will certainly kill me."The witch answered, "Oh, you need not be afraid of that. leave it tome."What did the witch do? She had made a little basketful of sweetmeats,in which she put a charm. then she wrote a letter, pretending that it washer father, who, having learned where she was, wished to make her thispresent, and the letter pretended that her father was so glad to hear thatshe was with the fairies.Let us leave the witch who is arranging all this deception, and returnto Ermellina (for so the young girl was named). The fairies had said toher, "See, Ermellina, we are going away, and shall be absent four days.now in this time take good care not to open the door to anyone, for sometreachery is being prepared for you by your stepmother."She promised to open the door to no one: "Do not be anxious, I am welloff, and my stepmother has nothing to do with me."But it was not so. The fairies went away, and the next day whenErmellina was alone, she heard a knocking at the door, and said toherself, "Knock away! I don't open to anyone."But meanwhile the blows redoubled, and curiosity forced her to look outof the window. What did she see? She saw one the servant girls of her ownhome (for the witch had disguised herself as one of her father'sservants). "O my dear Ermellina," she said, "your father is shedding tearsof sorrow for you, because he really believed you were dead, but the eaglewhich carried you off came and told him the good news that you were herewith the fairies. Meanwhile your father, not knowing what civility to showyou, for he understands very well that you are in need of nothing, hasthought to send you this little basket of sweetmeats."Ermellina had not yet opened the door. the servant begged her to comedown and take the basket and the letter, but she said, "No, I wishnothing!" but finally, since women, and especially young girls, are fondof sweetmeats, she descended and opened the door. When the witch had givenher the basket, she said, "Eat this," and broke off for her a piece of thesweetmeats which she had poisoned. When Ermellina took the first mouthfulthe old woman disappeared. Ermellina had scarcely time to close the door,when she fell down on the stairs.When the fairies returned they knocked at the door, but no one openedit for them. then they perceived that there had been some treachery, andbegan to weep. Then the chief of the fairies said, "We must break open thedoor," and so they did, and saw Ermellina dead on the stairs.Her other friends who loved her so dearly begged the chief of thefairies to bring her to life, but she would not, "for," she said, "she hasdisobeyed me." But one and the other asked her until she consented. sheopened Ermellina's mouth, took out a piece of the sweetmeat which she hadnot yet swallowed, raised her up, and Ermellina came to life again.We can imagine what a pleasure it was for her fiends. but the chief ofthe fairies reproved her for her disobedience, and she promised not to doso again.Once more the fairies were obliged to depart. Their chief said,"Remember, Ermellina: The first time I cured you, but the second I willhave nothing to do with you."Ermellina said they need not worry, that she would not open to anyone.But it was not so. for the eagle, thinking to increase her stepmother'sanger, told her again that Ermellina was alive. The stepmother denied itall to the eagle, but she summoned anew the witch, and told her that herstepdaughter was still alive, saying, "Either you will really kill her, orI will be avenged on you."The old woman, finding herself caught, told her to buy a very handsomedress, one of the handsomest she could find, and transformed herself intoa tailoress belonging to the family, took the dress, departed, went topoor Ermellina, knocked at the door and said, "Open, open, for I am yourtailoress."Ermellina looked out of the window and saw her tailoress. and was, intruth, a little confused (indeed, anyone would have been so).The tailoress said, "Come down, I must fit a dress on you."She replied, "No, no. for I have been deceived once.""But I am not the old woman," replied the tailoress, "you know me, forI have always made your dresses."Poor Ermellina was persuaded, and descended the stairs. the tailoresstook to flight while Ermellina was yet buttoning up the dress, anddisappeared. Ermellina closed the door, and was mounting the stairs. butit was not permitted her to go up, for she fell down dead.Let us return to the fairies, who came home and knocked at the door.but what good did it do to knock! There was no longer anyone there. Theybegan to weep. The chief of the fairies said, "I told you that she wouldbetray me again. but now I will have nothing more to do with her."So they broke open the door, and saw the poor girl with the beautifuldress on. but she was dead. They all wept, because they really loved her.But there was nothing to do. the chief struck her enchanted wand, andcommanded a beautiful rich casket all covered with diamonds and otherprecious stones to appear. then the others made a beautiful garland offlowers and gold, put it on the young girl, and then laid her in thecasket, which was so rich and beautiful that it was marvelous to behold.Then the old fairy struck her wand as usual and commanded a handsomehorse, the like of which not even the king possessed. Then they took thecasket, put it on the horse's back, and led him into the public square ofthe city, and the chief of the fairies said, "Go, and do not stop untilyou find someone who says to you, 'Stop, for pity's sake, for I have lostmy horse for you.'"Now let us leave the afflicted fairies, and turn our attention to thehorse, which ran away at full speed. Who happened to pass at that moment?The son of a king (the name of this king is not known). and saw this horsewith that wonder on its back. Then the king began to spur his horse, androde him so hard that he killed him, and had to leave him dead in theroad. but the king kept running after the other horse. The poor king couldendure it no longer. he saw himself lost, and exclaimed, "Stop, for pity'ssake, for I have lost my horse for you!"Then the horse stopped (for those were the words). When the king sawthat beautiful girl dead in the casket, he thought no more about his ownhorse, but took the other to the city. The king's mother knew that her sonhad gone hunting. when she saw him returning with this loaded horse, shedid not know what to think. The son had no father, wherefore he was allpowerful. He reached the palace, had the horse unloaded, and the casketcarried to his chamber. then he called his mother and said, "Mother, Iwent hunting, but I have found a wife.""But what is it? A doll? A dead woman?""Mother," replied her son, "don't trouble yourself about what it is, itis my wife."His mother began to laugh, and withdrew to her own room (what could shedo, poor mother?).Now this poor king no longer went hunting, took no diversion, did noteven go to the table, but ate in his own room. By a fatality it happenedthat war was declared against him, and he was obliged to depart. He calledhis mother, and said, "Mother, I wish two careful chambermaids, whosebusiness it shall be to guard this casket. for if on my return I find thatanything has happened to my casket, I shall have the chambermaids killed."His mother, who loved him, said, "Go, my son, fear nothing, for Imyself will watch over your casket."He wept several days at being obliged to abandon this treasure of his,but there was no help for it, he had to go. After his departure he didnothing but commend his wife (so he called her) to his mother in hisletters.Let us return to the mother, who no longer thought about the matter,not even to have the casket dusted. but all at once there came a letterwhich informed her that the king had been victorious, and should return tohis palace in a few days. The mother called the chambermaids, and said tothem, "Girls, we are ruined."They replied, "Why, Highness?""Because my son will be back in a few days, and how have we taken careof the doll?"They answered, "True, true. now let us go and wash the doll's face."They went to the king's room and saw that the doll's face and handswere covered with dust and fly specks, so they took a sponge and washedher face, but some drops of water fell on her dress and spotted it. Thepoor chambermaids began to weep, and went to the queen for advice.The queen said, "Do you know what to do! Call a tailoress, and have adress precisely like this bought, and take off this one before my soncomes."They did so, and the chambermaids went to the room and began tounbutton the dress. The moment that they took off the first sleeve,Ermellina opened her eyes. The poor chambermaids sprang up in terror, butone of the most courageous said, "I am a woman, and so is this one. shewill not eat me."To cut the matter short, she took off thee dress, and when it wasremoved Ermellina began to get out of the casket to walk about and seewhere she was. The chambermaids fell on their knees before her and beggedher to tell them who she was. She, poor girl, told them the whole story.Then she said, "I wish to know where I am."Then the chambermaids called the king's mother to explain it to her.The mother did not fail to tell her everything, and she, poor girl, didnothing but weep penitently, thinking of what the fairies had done forher.The king was on the point of arriving, and his mother said to the doll,"Come her. put on one of my best dresses." In short, she arrayed her likea queen. Then came her son. They shut the doll up in a small room, so thatshe could not be seen. The king came with great joy, with trumpetsblowing, and banners flying for the victory. But he took no interest inall this, and ran at once to his room to see the doll. the chambermaidsfell on their knees before him saying that the doll smelled so badly thatthey could not stay in the palace, and were obliged to bury her.The king would not listen to this excuse, but at once called two of thepalace servants to erect the gallows. His mother comforted him in vain:"My son, it was a dead woman.""No, no, I will not listen to any reasons. dead or alive, you shouldhave left it for me."Finally, when his mother saw that he was in earnest about the gallows,she rang a little bell, and there cam forth no longer the doll, but a verybeautiful girl, whose like was never seen. The king was amazed, and said,"What is this!"Then his mother, the chambermaids, and Ermellina were obliged to tellhim all that had happened.He said, "Mother, since I adored her when dead, and called her my wife,now I mean her to be my wife in truth.""Yes, my son," replied his mother, "do so, for I am willing."They arranged the wedding, and in a few days were man and wife.