Now you shall hear a story that somebody's great great grandmother tolda little girl ever so many years ago:There was once a little old man and a little old woman, who lived in alittle old house in the edge of a wood. They would have been a very happyold couple but for one thing   they had no little child, and they wishedfor one very much. One day, when the little old woman was bakinggingerbread, she cut a cake in the shape of a little boy, and put it intothe oven.Presently she went to the oven to see if it was baked. As soon as theoven door was opened, the little gingerbread boy jumped out, and began torun away as fast as he could go.The little old woman called her husband, and they both ran after him.But they could not catch him. And soon the gingerbread boy came to a barnfull of threshers. He called out to them as he went by, saying:I've run away from a little old woman,A little old man,And I can run away from you, I can!Then the barn full of threshers set out to run after him. But, thoughthey ran fast, they could not catch him. And he ran on till he came to afield full of mowers. He called out to them:I've run away from a little old woman,A little old man,A barn full of threshers,And I can run away from you, I can!Then the mowers began to run after him, but they couldn't catch him.And he ran on till he came to a cow. He called out to her:I've run away from a little old woman,A little old man,A barn full of threshers,A field full of mowers,And I can run away from you, I can!But, though the cow started at once, she couldn't catch him. And soonhe came to a pig. He called out to the pig:I've run away from a little old woman,A little old man,A barn full of threshers,A field full of mowers,A cow,And I can run away from you, I can!But the pig ran, and couldn't catch him. And he ran till he came acrossa fox, and to him he called out:I've run away from a little old woman,A little old man,A barn full of threshers,A field full of mowers,A cow and a pig,And I can run away from you, I can!Then the fox set out to run. Now foxes can run very fast, and so thefox soon caught the gingerbread boy and began to eat him up.Presently the gingerbread boy said, "Oh dear! I'm quarter gone!" Andthen, "Oh, I'm half gone!" And soon, "I'm three quarters gone!" And atlast, "I'm all gone!" and never spoke again.