(13) From the Polish. Kletke.Once upon a time there were three Princesses who were all three youngand beautiful. but the youngest, although she was not fairer than theother two, was the most loveable of them all.About half a mile from the palace in which they lived there stood acastle, which was uninhabited and almost a ruin, but the garden whichsurrounded it was a mass of blooming flowers, and in this garden theyoungest Princess used often to walk.One day when she was pacing to and fro under the lime trees, a blackcrow hopped out of a rose bush in front of her. The poor beast was alltorn and bleeding, and the kind little Princess was quite unhappy aboutit. When the crow saw this it turned to her and said:'I am not really a black crow, but an enchanted Prince, who has beendoomed to spend his youth in misery. If you only liked, Princess, youcould save me. But you would have to say good bye to all your own peopleand come and be my constant companion in this ruined castle. There isone habitable room in it, in which there is a golden bed. there you willhave to live all by yourself, and don't forget that whatever you may seeor hear in the night you must not scream out, for if you give as much asa single cry my sufferings will be doubled.'The good natured Princess at once left her home and her family andhurried to the ruined castle, and took possession of the room with thegolden bed.When night approached she lay down, but though she shut her eyes tightsleep would not come. At midnight she heard to her great horror some onecoming along the passage, and in a minute her door was flung wide openand a troop of strange beings entered the room. They at once proceededto light a fire in the huge fireplace. then they placed a great cauldronof boiling water on it. When they had done this, they approached thebed on which the trembling girl lay, and, screaming and yelling allthe time, they dragged her towards the cauldron. She nearly died withfright, but she never uttered a sound. Then of a sudden the cock crew,and all the evil spirits vanished.At the same moment the crow appeared and hopped all round the room withjoy. It thanked the Princess most heartily for her goodness, and saidthat its sufferings had already been greatly lessened.Now one of the Princess's elder sisters, who was very inquisitive, hadfound out about everything, and went to pay her youngest sister a visitin the ruined castle. She implored her so urgently to let her spend thenight with her in the golden bed, that at last the good natured littlePrincess consented. But at midnight, when the odd folk appeared, theelder sister screamed with terror, and from this time on the youngestPrincess insisted always on keeping watch alone.So she lived in solitude all the daytime, and at night she would havebeen frightened, had she not been so brave. but every day the crow cameand thanked her for her endurance, and assured her that his sufferingswere far less than they had been.And so two years passed away, when one day the crow came to the Princessand said: 'In another year I shall be freed from the spell I am underat present, because then the seven years will be over. But before Ican resume my natural form, and take possession of the belongings ofmy forefathers, you must go out into the world and take service as amaidservant.'The young Princess consented at once, and for a whole year she served asa maid. but in spite of her youth and beauty she was very badly treated,and suffered many things. One evening, when she was spinning flax, andhad worked her little white hands weary, she heard a rustling beside herand a cry of joy. Then she saw a handsome youth standing beside her. whoknelt down at her feet and kissed the little weary white hands.'I am the Prince,' he said, 'who you in your goodness, when I waswandering about in the shape of a black crow, freed from the most awfultorments. Come now to my castle with me, and let us live there happilytogether.'So they went to the castle where they had both endured so much. But whenthey reached it, it was difficult to believe that it was the same, forit had all been rebuilt and done up again. And there they lived for ahundred years, a hundred years of joy and happiness.