In a country were seven daughters of poor parents, who used to comedaily to play under the shady trees in the King's garden with thegardener's daughter. and daily she used to say to them, "When I ammarried I shall have a son. Such a beautiful boy as he will be hasnever been seen. He will have a moon on his forehead and a star on hischin." Then her playfellows used to laugh at her and mock her.But one day the King heard her telling them about the beautiful boyshe would have when she was married, and he said to himself he shouldlike very much to have such a son. the more so that though he hadalready four Queens he had no child. He went, therefore, to thegardener and told him he wished to marry his daughter. This delightedthe gardener and his wife, who thought it would indeed be grand fortheir daughter to become a princess. So they said "Yes" to the King,and invited all their friends to the wedding. The King invited allhis, and he gave the gardener as much money as he wanted. Then thewedding was held with great feasting and rejoicing.A year later the day drew near on which the gardener's daughter was tohave her son. and the King's four other Queens came constantly to seeher. One day they said to her, "The King hunts every day. and the timeis soon coming when you will have your child. Suppose you fell illwhilst he was out hunting and could therefore know nothing of yourillness, what would you do then?"When the King came home that evening, the gardener's daughter said tohim, "Every day you go out hunting. Should I ever be in trouble orsick while you are away, how could I send for you?" The King gave hera kettle drum which he placed near the door for her, and he said toher, "Whenever you want me, beat this kettle drum. No matter how faraway I may be, I shall hear it, and will come at once to you."Next morning when the King had gone out to hunt, his four other Queenscame to see the gardener's daughter. She told them all about herkettle drum. "Oh," they said, "do drum on it just to see if the Kingreally will come to you.""No, I will not," she said. "for why should I call him from hishunting when I do not want him?""Don't mind interrupting his hunting," they answered. "Do try if hereally will come to you when you beat your kettle drum." So at last,just to please them, she beat it, and the King stood before her."Why have you called me?" he said. "See, I have left my hunting tocome to you.""I want nothing," she answered. "I only wished to know if you reallywould come to me when I beat my drum.""Very well," answered the King. "but do not call me again unless youreally need me." Then he returned to his hunting.The next day, when the King had gone out hunting as usual, the fourQueens again came to see the gardener's daughter. They begged andbegged her to beat her drum once more, "just to see if the King willreally come to see you this time." At first she refused, but at lastshe consented. So she beat her drum, and the King came to her. Butwhen he found she was neither ill nor in trouble, he was angry, andsaid to her, "Twice I have left my hunting and lost my game to come toyou when you did not need me. Now you may call me as much as you like,but I will not come to you," and then he went away in a rage.The third day the gardener's daughter fell ill, and she beat and beather kettle drum. but the King never came. He heard her kettle drum,but he thought, "She does not really want me. she is only trying tosee if I will go to her."Meanwhile the four other Queens came to her, and they said, "Here itis the custom before a child is born to bind its mother's eyes with ahandkerchief that she may not see it just at first. So let us bindyour eyes." She answered, "Very well, bind my eyes." The four wivesthen tied a handkerchief over them.Soon after, the gardener's daughter had a beautiful little son, with amoon on his forehead and a star on his chin, and before the poormother had seen him, the four wicked Queens took the boy to the nurseand said to her, "Now you must not let this child make the least soundfor fear his mother should hear him. and in the night you must eitherkill him, or else take him away, so that his mother may never see him.If you obey our orders, we will give you a great many rupees." Allthis they did out of spite. The nurse took the little child and puthim into a box, and the four Queens went back to the gardener'sdaughter.First they put a stone into her boy's little bed, and then they tookthe handkerchief off her eyes and showed it her, saying, "Look! thisis your son!" The poor girl cried bitterly, and thought, "What willthe King say when he finds no child?" But she could do nothing.When the King came home, he was furious at hearing his youngest wife,the gardener's daughter, had given him a stone instead of thebeautiful little son she had promised him. He made her one of thepalace servants, and never spoke to her.In the middle of the night the nurse took the box in which was thebeautiful little prince, and went out to a broad plain in the jungle.There she dug a hole, made the fastenings of the box sure, and put thebox into the hole, although the child in it was still alive. TheKing's dog, whose name was Shankar, had followed her to see what shedid with the box. As soon as she had gone back to the four Queens (whogave her a great many rupees), the dog went to the hole in which shehad put the box, took the box out, and opened it. When he saw thebeautiful little boy, he was very much delighted and said, "If itpleases Khuda that this child should live, I will not hurt him. I willnot eat him, but I will swallow him whole and hide him in my stomach."This he did.After six months had passed, the dog went by night to the jungle, andthought, "I wonder whether the boy is alive or dead." Then he broughtthe child out of his stomach and rejoiced over his beauty. The boy wasnow six months old. When Shankar had caressed and loved him, heswallowed him again for another six months. At the end of that time hewent once more by night to the broad jungle plain. There he brought upthe child out of his stomach (the child was now a year old), andcaressed and petted him a great deal, and was made very happy by hisgreat beauty.But this time the dog's keeper had followed and watched the dog. andhe saw all that Shankar did, and the beautiful little child, so he ranto the four Queens and said to them, "Inside the King's dog there is achild! the loveliest child! He has a moon on his forehead and a staron his chin. Such a child has never been seen!" At this the four wiveswere very much frightened, and as soon as the King came home fromhunting they said to him, "While you were away your dog came to ourrooms, and tore our clothes and knocked about all our things. We areafraid he will kill us." "Do not be afraid," said the King. "Eat yourdinner and be happy. I will have the dog shot to morrow morning."Then he ordered his servants to shoot the dog at dawn, but the dogheard him, and said to himself, "What shall I do? The King intends tokill me. I don't care about that, but what will become of the child ifI am killed? He will die. But I will see if I cannot save him."So when it was night, the dog ran to the King's cow, who was calledSuri, and said to her, "Suri, I want to give you something, for theKing has ordered me to be shot to morrow. Will you take great care ofwhatever I give you?""Let me see what it is," said Suri, "I will take care of it if Ican." Then they both went together to the wide plain, and there thedog brought up the boy. Suri was enchanted with him. "I never saw sucha beautiful child in this country," she said. "See, he has a moon onhis forehead and a star on his chin. I will take the greatest care ofhim." So saying she swallowed the little prince. The dog made her agreat many salaams, and said, "To morrow I shall die." and the cowthen went back to her stable.Next morning at dawn the dog was taken to the jungle and shot.The child now lived in Suri's stomach. and when one whole year hadpassed, and he was two years old, the cow went out to the plain, andsaid to herself, "I do not know whether the child is alive or dead.But I have never hurt it, so I will see." Then she brought up the boy.and he played about, and Suri was delighted. she loved him andcaressed him, and talked to him. Then she swallowed him, and returnedto her stable.At the end of another year she went again to the plain and brought upthe child. He played and ran about for an hour to her great delight,and she talked to him and caressed him. His great beauty made her veryhappy. Then she swallowed him once more and returned to her stable.The child was now three years old.But this time the cowherd had followed Suri, and had seen thewonderful child and all she did to it. So he ran and told the fourQueens, "The King's cow has a beautiful boy inside her. He has a moonon his forehead and a star on his chin. Such a child has never beenseen before!"At this the Queens were terrified. They tore their clothes and theirhair and cried. When the King came home at evening, he asked them whythey were so agitated. "Oh," they said, "your cow came and tried tokill us. but we ran away. She tore our hair and our clothes." "Nevermind," said the King. "Eat your dinner and be happy. The cow shall bekilled to morrow morning."Now Suri heard the King give this order to the servants, so she saidto herself, "What shall I do to save the child?" When it was midnight,she went to the King's horse called Katar, who was very wicked, andquite untameable. No one had ever been able to ride him. indeed no onecould go near him with safety, he was so savage. Suri said to thishorse, "Katar, will you take care of something that I want to giveyou, because the King has ordered me to be killed to morrow?""Good," said Katar. "show me what it is." Then Suri brought up thechild, and the horse was delighted with him. "Yes," he said, "I willtake the greatest care of him. Till now no one has been able to rideme, but this child shall ride me." Then he swallowed the boy, and whenhe had done so, the cow made him many salaams, saying, "It is for thisboy's sake that I am to die." The next morning she was taken to thejungle and there killed.The beautiful boy now lived in the horse's stomach, and he stayed init for one whole year. At the end of that time the horse thought, "Iwill see if this child is alive or dead." So he brought him up. andthen he loved him, and petted him, and the little prince played allabout the stable, out of which the horse was never allowed to go.Katar was very glad to see the child, who was now four years old.After he had played for some time, the horse swallowed him again. Atthe end of another year, when the boy was five years old, Katarbrought him up again, caressed him, loved him, and let him play aboutthe stable as he had done a year before. Then the horse swallowed himagain.But this time the groom had seen all that happened, and when it wasmorning, and the King had gone away to his hunting, he went to thefour wicked Queens, and told them all he had seen, and all about thewonderful, beautiful child that lived inside the King's horse Katar.On hearing the groom's story the four Queens cried, and tore theirhair and clothes, and refused to eat. When the King returned atevening and asked them why they were so miserable, they said, "Yourhorse Katar came and tore our clothes, and upset all our things, andwe ran away for fear he should kill us.""Never mind," said the King. "Only eat your dinner and be happy. Iwill have Katar shot to morrow." Then he thought that two men unaidedcould not kill such a wicked horse, so he ordered his servants to bidhis troop of sepoys shoot him.So the next day the King placed his sepoys all round the stable, andhe took up his stand with them. and he said he would himself shoot anyone who let his horse escape.Meanwhile the horse had overheard all these orders. So he brought upthe child and said to him, "Go into that little room that leads out ofthe stable, and you will find in it a saddle and bridle which you mustput on me. Then you will find in the room some beautiful clothes suchas princes wear. these you must put on yourself. and you must take thesword and gun you will find there too. Then you must mount on myback." Now Katar was a fairy horse, and came from the fairies'country, so he could get anything he wanted. but neither the King norany of his people knew this. When all was ready, Katar burst out ofhis stable, with the prince on his back, rushed past the King himselfbefore the King had time to shoot him, galloped away to the greatjungle plain, and galloped about all over it. The King saw his horsehad a boy on his back, though he could not see the boy distinctly. Thesepoys tried in vain to shoot the horse. he galloped much too fast.and at last they were all scattered over the plain. Then the King hadto give it up and go home. and the sepoys went to their homes. TheKing could not shoot any of his sepoys for letting his horse escape,for he himself had let him do so.Then Katar galloped away, on, and on, and on. and when night came theystayed under a tree, he and the King's son. The horse ate grass, andthe boy wild fruits which he found in the jungle. Next morning theystarted afresh, and went far, and far, till they came to a jungle inanother country, which did not belong to the little prince's father,but to another king. Here Katar said to the boy, "Now get off myback." Off jumped the prince. "Unsaddle me and take off my bridle.take off your beautiful clothes and tie them all up in a bundle withyour sword and gun." This the boy did. Then the horse gave him somepoor, common clothes, which he told him to put on. As soon as he wasdressed in them the horse said, "Hide your bundle in this grass, and Iwill take care of it for you. I will always stay in this jungle plain,so that when you want me you will always find me. You must now go awayand find service with some one in this country."This made the boy very sad. "I know nothing about anything," he said."What shall I do all alone in this country?""Do not be afraid," answered Katar. "You will find service, and I willalways stay here to help you when you want me. So go, only before yougo, twist my right ear." The boy did so, and his horse instantlybecame a donkey. "Now twist your right ear," said Katar. And when theboy had twisted it, he was no longer a handsome prince, but a poor,common looking, ugly man. and his moon and star were hidden.Then he went away further into the country, until he came to a grainmerchant of the country, who asked him who he was. "I am a poor man,"answered the boy, "and I want service." "Good," said the grainmerchant, "you shall be my servant."Now the grain merchant lived near the King's palace, and one night attwelve o'clock the boy was very hot. so he went out into the King'scool garden, and began to sing a lovely song. The seventh and youngestdaughter of the King heard him, and she wondered who it was who couldsing so deliciously. Then she put on her clothes, rolled up her hair,and came down to where the seemingly poor common man was lyingsinging. "Who are you? where do you come from?" she asked.But he answered nothing."Who is this man who does not answer when I speak to him?" thought thelittle princess, and she went away. On the second night the same thinghappened, and on the third night too. But on the third night, when shefound she could not make him answer her, she said to him, "What astrange man you are not to answer me when I speak to you." But stillhe remained silent, so she went away.The next day, when he had finished his work, the young prince went tothe jungle to see his horse, who asked him, "Are you quite well andhappy?" "Yes, I am," answered the boy. "I am servant to a grainmerchant. The last three nights I have gone into the King's garden andsung a song, and each night the youngest princess has come to me andasked me who I am, and whence I came, and I have answered nothing.What shall I do now?" The horse said, "Next time she asks you who youare, tell her you are a very poor man, and came from your own countryto find service here."The boy then went home to the grain merchant, and at night, when everyone had gone to bed, he went to the King's garden and sang his sweetsong again. The youngest princess heard him, got up, dressed, and cameto him. "Who are you? Whence do you come?" she asked."I am a very poor man," he answered. "I came from my own country toseek service here, and I am now one of the grain merchant's servants."Then she went away. For three more nights the boy sang in the King'sgarden, and each night the princess came and asked him the samequestions as before, and the boy gave her the same answers.Then she went to her father, and said to him, "Father, I wish to bemarried. but I must choose my husband myself." Her father consented tothis, and he wrote and invited all the Kings and Rajas in the land,saying, "My youngest daughter wishes to be married, but she insists onchoosing her husband herself. As I do not know who it is she wishes tomarry, I beg you will all come on a certain day, for her to see youand make her choice."A great many Kings, Rajas, and their sons accepted this invitation andcame. When they had all arrived, the little princess's father said tothem, "To morrow morning you must all sit together in my garden" (theKing's garden was very large), "for then my youngest daughter willcome and see you all, and choose her husband. I do not know whom shewill choose."The youngest princess ordered a grand elephant to be ready for her thenext morning, and when the morning came, and all was ready, shedressed herself in the most lovely clothes, and put on her beautifuljewels. then she mounted her elephant, which was painted blue. In herhand she took a gold necklace.Then she went into the garden where the Kings, Rajas, and their sonswere seated. The boy, the grain merchant's servant, was also in thegarden: not as a suitor, but looking on with the other servants.The princess rode all round the garden, and looked at all the Kingsand Rajas and princes, and then she hung the gold necklace round theneck of the boy, the grain merchant's servant. At this everybodylaughed, and the Kings were greatly astonished. But then they and theRajas said, "What fooling is this?" and they pushed the pretended poorman away, and took the necklace off his neck, and said to him, "Getout of the way, you poor, dirty man. Your clothes are far too dirtyfor you to come near us!" The boy went far away from them, and stood along way off to see what would happen.Then the King's youngest daughter went all round the garden again,holding her gold necklace in her hand, and once more she hung it roundthe boy's neck. Every one laughed at her and said, "How can the King'sdaughter think of marrying this poor, common man!" and the Kings andthe Rajas, who had come as suitors, all wanted to turn him out of thegarden. But the princess said, "Take care! take care! You must notturn him out. Leave him alone." Then she put him on her elephant, andtook him to the palace.The Kings and Rajas and their sons were very much astonished, andsaid, "What does this mean? The princess does not care to marry one ofus, but chooses that very poor man!" Her father then stood up, andsaid to them all, "I promised my daughter she should marry any one shepleased, and as she has twice chosen that poor, common man, she shallmarry him." And so the princess and the boy were married with greatpomp and splendour: her father and mother were quite content with herchoice. and the Kings, the Rajas and their sons, all returned to theirhomes.Now the princess's six sisters had all married rich princes, and theylaughed at her for choosing such a poor ugly husband as hers seemed tobe, and said to each other, mockingly, "See! our sister has marriedthis poor, common man!" Their six husbands used to go out huntingevery day, and every evening they brought home quantities of all kindsof game to their wives, and the game was cooked for their dinner andfor the King's. but the husband of the youngest princess always stayedat home in the palace, and never went out hunting at all. This madeher very sad, and she said to herself, "My sisters' husbands huntevery day, but my husband never hunts at all."At last she said to him, "Why do you never go out hunting as mysisters' husbands do every day, and every day they bring homequantities of all kinds of game? Why do you always stay at home,instead of doing as they do?"One day he said to her, "I am going out to day to eat the air.""Very good," she answered. "go, and take one of the horses.""No," said the young prince, "I will not ride, I will walk." Then hewent to the jungle plain where he had left Katar, who all this timehad seemed to be a donkey, and he told Katar everything. "Listen," hesaid. "I have married the youngest princess. and when we were marriedeverybody laughed at her for choosing me, and said, 'What a very poor,common man our princess has chosen for her husband!' Besides, my wifeis very sad, for her six sisters' husbands all hunt every day, andbring home quantities of game, and their wives therefore are veryproud of them. But I stay at home all day, and never hunt. To day Ishould like to hunt very much.""Well," said Katar, "then twist my left ear." and as soon as the boyhad twisted it, Katar was a horse again, and not a donkey any longer."Now," said Katar, "twist your left ear, and you will see what abeautiful young prince you will become." So the boy twisted his ownleft ear, and there he stood no longer a poor, common, ugly man, but agrand young prince with a moon on his forehead and a star on his chin.Then he put on his splendid clothes, saddled and bridled Katar, got onhis back with his sword and gun, and rode off to hunt.He rode very far, and shot a great many birds and a quantity of deer.That day his six brothers in law could find no game, for the beautifulyoung prince had shot it all. Nearly all the day long these sixprinces wandered about looking in vain for game. till at last theygrew hungry and thirsty, and could find no water, and they had no foodwith them. Meanwhile the beautiful young prince had sat down under atree, to dine and rest, and there his six brothers in law found him.By his side was some delicious water, and also some roast meat.When they saw him the six princes said to each other, "Look at thathandsome prince. He has a moon on his forehead and a star on his chin.We have never seen such a prince in this jungle before. he must comefrom another country." Then they came up to him, and made him manysalaams, and begged him to give them some food and water. "Who areyou?" said the young prince. "We are the husbands of the six elderdaughters of the King of this country," they answered. "and we havehunted all day, and are very hungry and thirsty." They did notrecognise their brother in law in the least."Well," said the young prince, "I will give you something to eat anddrink if you will do as I bid you." "We will do all you tell us todo," they answered, "for if we do not get water to drink, we shalldie." "Very good," said the young prince. "Now you must let me put ared hot pice on the back of each of you, and then I will give you foodand water. Do you agree to this?" The six princes consented, for theythought, "No one will ever see the mark of the pice, as it will becovered by our clothes. and we shall die if we have no water todrink." Then the young prince took six pice, and made them red hot inthe fire. he laid one on the back of each of the six princes, and gavethem good food and water. They ate and drank. and when they hadfinished they made him many salaams and went home.The young prince stayed under the tree till it was evening. then hemounted his horse and rode off to the King's palace. All the peoplelooked at him as he came riding along, saying, "What a splendid youngprince that is! He has a moon on his forehead and a star on his chin."But no one recognised him. When he came near the King's palace, allthe King's servants asked him who he was. and as none of them knewhim, the gate keepers would not let him pass in. They all wondered whohe could be, and all thought him the most beautiful prince that hadever been seen.At last they asked him who he was. "I am the husband of your youngestprincess," he answered."No, no, indeed you are not," they said. "for he is a poor,common looking, and ugly man.""But I am he," answered the prince. only no one would believe him."Tell us the truth," said the servants. "who are you?""Perhaps you cannot recognise me," said the young prince, "but callthe youngest princess here. I wish to speak to her." The servantscalled her, and she came. "That man is not my husband," she said atonce. "My husband is not nearly as handsome as that man. This must bea prince from another country."Then she said to him, "Who are you? Why do you say you are myhusband?""Because I am your husband. I am telling you the truth," answered theyoung prince."No you are not, you are not telling me the truth," said the littleprincess. "My husband is not a handsome man like you. I married a verypoor, common looking man.""That is true," he answered, "but nevertheless I am your husband. Iwas the grain merchant's servant. and one hot night I went into yourfather's garden and sang, and you heard me, and came and asked me whoI was and where I came from, and I would not answer you. And the samething happened the next night, and the next, and on the fourth I toldyou I was a very poor man, and had come from my country to seekservice in yours, and that I was the grain merchant's servant. Thenyou told your father you wished to marry, but must choose your ownhusband. and when all the Kings and Rajas were seated in your father'sgarden, you sat on an elephant and went round and looked at them all.and then twice hung your gold necklace round my neck, and chose me.See, here is your necklace, and here are the ring and the handkerchiefyou gave me on our wedding day."Then she believed him, and was very glad that her husband was such abeautiful young prince. "What a strange man you are!" she said tohim. "Till now you have been poor, and ugly, and common looking. Nowyou are beautiful and look like a prince. I never saw such a handsomeman as you are before. and yet I know you must be my husband." Thenshe worshipped God and thanked him for letting her have such ahusband. "I have," she said, "a beautiful husband. There is no onelike him in this country. He has a moon on his forehead and a star onhis chin." Then she took him into the palace, and showed him to herfather and mother and to every one. They all said they had never seenany one like him, and were all very happy. And the young prince livedas before in the King's palace with his wife, and Katar lived in theKing's stables.One day, when the King and his seven sons in law were in hiscourt house, and it was full of people, the young prince said to him,"There are six thieves here in your court house." "Six thieves!" saidthe King. "Where are they? Show them to me." "There they are," saidthe young prince, pointing to his six brothers in law. The King andevery one else in the court house were very much astonished, and wouldnot believe the young prince. "Take off their coats," he said, "andthen you will see for yourselves that each of them has the mark of athief on his back." So their coats were taken off the six princes, andthe King and everybody in the court house saw the mark of the red hotpice. The six princes were very much ashamed, but the young prince wasvery glad. He had not forgotten how his brothers in law had laughed athim and mocked him when he seemed a poor, common man.Now, when Katar was still in the jungle, before the prince wasmarried, he had told the boy the whole story of his birth, and allthat had happened to him and his mother. "When you are married," hesaid to him, "I will take you back to your father's country." So twomonths after the young prince had revenged himself on hisbrothers in law, Katar said to him, "It is time for you to return toyour father. Get the King to let you go to your own country, and Iwill tell you what to do when we get there."The prince always did what his horse told him to do. so he went to hiswife and said to her, "I wish very much to go to my own country to seemy father and mother." "Very well," said his wife. "I will tell myfather and mother, and ask them to let us go." Then she went to them,and told them, and they consented to let her and her husband leavethem. The King gave his daughter and the young prince a great manyhorses, and elephants, and all sorts of presents, and also a greatmany sepoys to guard them. In this grand state they travelled to theprince's country, which was not a great many miles off. When theyreached it they pitched their tents on the same plain in which theprince had been left in his box by the nurse, where Shankar and Surihad swallowed him so often.When the King, his father, the gardener's daughter's husband, saw theprince's camp, he was very much alarmed, and thought a great King hadcome to make war on him. He sent one of his servants, therefore, toask whose camp it was. The young prince then wrote him a letter, inwhich he said, "You are a great King. Do not fear me. I am not come tomake war on you. I am as if I were your son. I am a prince who hascome to see your country and to speak with you. I wish to give you agrand feast, to which every one in your country must come men andwomen, old and young, rich and poor, of all castes. all the children,fakirs, and sepoys. You must bring them all here to me for a week, andI will feast them all."The King was delighted with this letter, and ordered all the men,women, and children of all castes, fakirs, and sepoys, in his countryto go to the prince's camp to a grand feast the prince would givethem. So they all came, and the King brought his four wives too. Allcame, at least all but the gardener's daughter. No one had told her togo to the feast, for no one had thought of her.When all the people were assembled, the prince saw his mother was notthere, and he asked the King, "Has every one in your country come tomy feast?""Yes, every one," said the King."Are you sure of that?" asked the prince."Quite sure," answered the King."I am sure one woman has not come," said the prince. "She is yourgardener's daughter, who was once your wife and is now a servant inyour palace.""True," said the King, "I had forgotten her." Then the prince told hisservants to take his finest palanquin and to fetch the gardener'sdaughter. They were to bathe her, dress her in beautiful clothes andhandsome jewels, and then bring her to him in the palanquin.While the servants were bringing the gardener's daughter, the Kingthought how handsome the young prince was. and he noticed particularlythe moon on his forehead and the star on his chin, and he wondered inwhat country the young prince was born.And now the palanquin arrived bringing the gardener's daughter, andthe young prince went himself and took her out of it, and brought herinto the tent. He made her a great many salaams. The four wicked wiveslooked on and were very much surprised and very angry. They rememberedthat, when they arrived, the prince had made them no salaams, andsince then had not taken the least notice of them. whereas he couldnot do enough for the gardener's daughter, and seemed very glad to seeher.When they were all at dinner, the prince again made the gardener'sdaughter a great many salaams, and gave her food from all the nicestdishes. She wondered at his kindness to her, and thought, "Who is thishandsome prince, with a moon on his forehead and a star on his chin? Inever saw any one so beautiful. What country does he come from?"Two or three days were thus passed in feasting, and all that time theKing and his people were talking about the prince's beauty, andwondering who he was.One day the prince asked the King if he had any children. "None," heanswered."Do you know who I am?" asked the prince."No," said the King. "Tell me who you are.""I am your son," answered the prince, "and the gardener's daughter ismy mother."The King shook his head sadly. "How can you be my son," he said, "whenI have never had any children?""But I am your son," answered the prince. "Your four wicked Queenstold you the gardener's daughter had given you a stone and not a son.but it was they who put the stone in my little bed, and then theytried to kill me."The King did not believe him. "I wish you were my son," he said. "butas I never had a child, you cannot be my son." "Do you remember yourdog Shankar, and how you had him killed? And do you remember your cowSuri, and how you had her killed too? Your wives made you kill thembecause of me. And," he said, taking the King to Katar, "do you knowwhose horse that is?"The King looked at Katar, and then said, "That is my horse Katar.""Yes," said the prince. "Do you not remember how he rushed past youout of his stable with me on his back?" Then Katar told the King theprince was really his son, and told him all the story of his birth,and of his life up to that moment. and when the King found thebeautiful prince was indeed his son, he was so glad, so glad. He puthis arms round him and kissed him and cried for joy."Now," said the King, "you must come with me to my palace, and livewith me always.""No," said the prince, "that I cannot do. I cannot go to your palace.I only came here to fetch my mother. and now that I have found her, Iwill take her with me to my father in law's palace. I have married aKing's daughter, and we live with her father.""But now that I have found you, I cannot let you go," said his father."You and your wife must come and live with your mother and me in mypalace.""That we will never do," said the prince, "unless you will kill yourfour wicked Queens with your own hand. If you will do that, we willcome and live with you."So the King killed his Queens, and then he and his wife, thegardener's daughter, and the prince and his wife, all went to live inthe King's palace, and lived there happily together for ever after.and the King thanked God for giving him such a beautiful son, and forridding him of his four wicked wives.Katar did not return to the fairies' country, but stayed always withthe young prince, and never left him.