On a bitter night somewhere between Christmas and the New Year, a manset out to walk to the neighbouring village. It was not many miles off,but the snow was so thick that there were no roads, or walls, or hedgesleft to guide him, and very soon he lost his way altogether, and wasglad to get shelter from the wind behind a thick juniper tree. Here heresolved to spend the night, thinking that when the sun rose he would beable to see his path again.So he tucked his legs snugly under him like a hedgehog, rolled himselfup in his sheepskin, and went to sleep. How long he slept, I cannot tellyou, but after awhile he became aware that some one was gently shakinghim, while a stranger whispered, 'My good man, get up! If you lie thereany more, you will be buried in the snow, and no one will ever know whatbecame of you.'The sleeper slowly raised his head from his furs, and opened his heavyeyes. Near him stood a long thin man, holding in his hand a young firtree taller than himself. 'Come with me,' said the man, 'a little wayoff we have made a large fire, and you will rest far better there thanout upon this moor.' The sleeper did not wait to be asked twice, butrose at once and followed the stranger. The snow was falling so fastthat he could not see three steps in front of him, till the strangerwaved his staff, when the drifts parted before them. Very soon theyreached a wood, and saw the friendly glow of a fire.'What is your name?' asked the stranger, suddenly turning round.'I am called Hans, the son of Long Hans,' said the peasant.In front of the fire three men were sitting clothed in white, just asif it was summer, and for about thirty feet all round winter had beenbanished. The moss was dry and the plants green, while the grass seemedall alive with the hum of bees and cockchafers. But above the noise theson of Long Hans could hear the whistling of the wind and the cracklingof the branches as they fell beneath the weight of the snow.'Well! you son of Long Hans, isn't this more comfortable than yourjuniper bush?' laughed the stranger, and for answer Hans replied hecould not thank his friend enough for having brought him here, and,throwing off his sheepskin, rolled it up as a pillow. Then, after a hotdrink which warmed both their hearts, they lay down on the ground. Thestranger talked for a little to the other men in a language Hans didnot understand, and after listening for a short time he once more fellasleep.When he awoke, neither wood nor fire was to be seen, and he did not knowwhere he was. He rubbed his eyes, and began to recall the events of thenight, thinking he must have been dreaming. but for all that, he couldnot make out how he came to be in this place.Suddenly a loud noise struck on his ear, and he felt the earth tremblebeneath his feet. Hans listened for a moment, then resolved to gotowards the place where the sound came from, hoping he might come acrosssome human being. He found himself at length at the mouth of a rockycave in which a fire seemed burning. He entered, and saw a huge forge,and a crowd of men in front of it, blowing bellows and wielding hammers,and to each anvil were seven men, and a set of more comical smiths couldnot be found if you searched all the world through! Their heads werebigger than their little bodies, and their hammers twice the size ofthemselves, but the strongest men on earth could not have handled theiriron clubs more stoutly or given lustier blows.The little blacksmiths were clad in leather aprons, which covered themfrom their necks to their feet in front, and left their backs naked.On a high stool against the wall sat the man with the pinewood staff,watching sharply the way the little fellows did their work, and near himstood a large can, from which every now and then the workers would comeand take a drink. The master no longer wore the white garments of theday before, but a black jerkin, held in its place by a leathern girdlewith huge clasps.From time to time he would give his workmen a sign with his staff, forit was useless to speak amid such a noise.If any of them had noticed that there was a stranger present they tookno heed of him, but went on with what they were doing. After some hours'hard labour came the time for rest, and they all flung their hammers tothe ground and trooped out of the cave.Then the master got down from his seat and said to Hans:'I saw you come in, but the work was pressing, and I could not stop tospeak to you. To day you must be my guest, and I will show you somethingof the way in which I live. Wait here for a moment, while I lay asidethese dirty clothes.' With these words he unlocked a door in the cave,and bade Hans pass in before him.Oh, what riches and treasures met Hans' astonished eyes! Gold and silverbars lay piled on the floor, and glittered so that you could not look atthem! Hans thought he would count them for fun, and had already reachedthe five hundred and seventieth when his host returned and cried,laughing:'Do not try to count them, it would take too long. choose some of thebars from the heap, as I should like to make you a present of them.'Hans did not wait to be asked twice, and stooped to pick up a bar ofgold, but though he put forth all his strength he could not even move itwith both hands, still less lift it off the ground.'Why, you have no more power than a flea,' laughed the host. 'you willhave to content yourself with feasting your eyes upon them!'So he bade Hans follow him through other rooms, till they entered onebigger than a church, filled, like the rest, with gold and silver.Hans wondered to see these vast riches, which might have bought all thekingdoms of the world, and lay buried, useless, he thought, to anyone.'What is the reason,' he asked of his guide, 'that you gather up thesetreasures here, where they can do good to nobody? If they fell intothe hands of men, everyone would be rich, and none need work or sufferhunger.''And it is exactly for that reason,' answered he, 'that I must keepthese riches out of their way. The whole world would sink to idleness ifmen were not forced to earn their daily bread. It is only through workand care that man can ever hope to be good for anything.'Hans stared at these words, and at last he begged that his host wouldtell him what use it was to anybody that this gold and silver should liemouldering there, and the owner of it be continually trying to increasehis treasure, which already overflowed his store rooms.'I am not really a man,' replied his guide, 'though I have the outwardform of one, but one of those beings to whom is given the care of theworld. It is my task and that of my workmen to prepare under the earththe gold and silver, a small portion of which finds its way every yearto the upper world, but only just enough to help them carry on theirbusiness. To none comes wealth without trouble: we must first dig outthe gold and mix the grains with earth, clay, and sand. Then, after longand hard seeking, it will be found in this state, by those who have goodluck or much patience. But, my friend, the hour of dinner is at hand. Ifyou wish to remain in this place, and feast your eyes on this gold, thenstay till I call you.'In his absence Hans wandered from one treasure chamber to another,sometimes trying to break off a little lump of gold, but never able todo it. After awhile his host came back, but so changed that Hans couldnot believe it was really he. His silken clothes were of the brightestflame colour, richly trimmed with gold fringes and lace. a golden girdlewas round his waist, while his head was encircled with a crown of gold,and precious stones twinkled about him like stars in a winter's night,and in place of his wooden stick he held a finely worked golden staff.The lord of all this treasure locked the doors and put the keys in hispocket, then led Hans into another room, where dinner was laid for them.Table and seats were all of silver, while the dishes and plates were ofsolid gold. Directly they sat down, a dozen little servants appeared towait on them, which they did so cleverly and so quickly that Hans couldhardly believe they had no wings. As they did not reach as high as thetable, they were often obliged to jump and hop right on to the top toget at the dishes. Everything was new to Hans, and though he was ratherbewildered he enjoyed himself very much, especially when the man withthe golden crown began to tell him many things he had never heard ofbefore.'Between Christmas and the New Year,' said he, 'I often amuse myselfby wandering about the earth watching the doings of men and learningsomething about them. But as far as I have seen and heard I cannotspeak well of them. The greater part of them are always quarrelling andcomplaining of each other's faults, while nobody thinks of his own.'Hans tried to deny the truth of these words, but he could not do it, andsat silent, hardly listening to what his friend was saying. Then he wentto sleep in his chair, and knew nothing of what was happening.Wonderful dreams came to him during his sleep, where the bars of goldcontinually hovered before his eyes. He felt stronger than he had everfelt during his waking moments, and lifted two bars quite easily onto his back. He did this so often that at length his strength seemedexhausted, and he sank almost breathless on the ground. Then he heardthe sound of cheerful voices, and the song of the blacksmiths as theyblew their bellows he even felt as if he saw the sparks flashing beforehis eyes. Stretching himself, he awoke slowly, and here he was in thegreen forest, and instead of the glow of the fire in the underworldthe sun was streaming on him, and he sat up wondering why he felt sostrange.At length his memory came back to him, and as he called to mind all thewonderful things he had seen he tried in vain to make them agree withthose that happen every day. After thinking it over till he was nearlymad, he tried at last to believe that one night between Christmas andthe New Year he had met a stranger in the forest, and had slept allnight in his company before a big fire. the next day they had dinedtogether, and had drunk a great deal more than was good for them inshort, he had spent two whole days revelling with another man. But here,with the full tide of summer around him, he could hardly accept his ownexplanation, and felt that he must have been the plaything or sport ofsome magician.Near him, in the full sunlight, were the traces of a dead fire, and whenhe drew close to it he saw that what he had taken for ashes was reallyfine silver dust, and that the half burnt firewood was made of gold.Oh, how lucky Hans thought himself. but where should he get a sack tocarry his treasure home before anyone else found it? But necessity isthe mother of invention: Hans threw off his fur coat, gathered up thesilver ashes so carefully in it that none remained behind, laid the goldsticks on top, and tied up the bag thus made with his girdle, so thatnothing should fall out. The load was not, in point of fact, very heavy,although it seemed so to his imagination, and he moved slowly along tillhe found a safe hiding place for it.In this way Hans suddenly became rich rich enough to buy a property ofhis own. But being a prudent man, he finally decided that it would bebest for him to leave his old neighbourhood and look for a home in adistant part of the country, where nobody knew anything about him. Itdid not take him long to find what he wanted, and after he had paid forit there was plenty of money left over. When he was settled, he marrieda pretty girl who lived near by, and had some children, to whom on hisdeath bed he told the story of the lord of the underworld, and how hehad made Hans rich.(Ehstnische Marchen.)