The great meadow above Muri was formerly worked by resident herders. Often when they went to feed their cattle in the morning they discovered that the day's work already had been done. The stall had been cleaned, milk buckets washed, strainers and funnels put away. In short, everything was in order and ready for the evening.Of course the herders wanted to know who their secret helpers were, so they hid themselves at all the barn's entrances. It wasn't long before they saw a tiny little man go into the barn. He crept through the feed opening into the cattle stall, where he silently busied himself. After finishing his work he quickly went out the same way and disappeared.The herders were delighted with this, but a certain sense of respect told them that they could not thank him with words. Therefore they had a little suit of clothes made for him, which they laid out in the stall.At his next appearance the dwarf tried on the new shirt, then put on the little leather cap, turning it this way and that way. Looking proudly at his new clothes in the little mirror that had been placed there, he called out over and over again, "I am no longer a herder!"From this time onward he was never again seen in Muri. instead, he entered service in the village of Buttwil.One day the peasant there said to his wife, "All the work in the stall and the barn is always done before daybreak. There is never any less hay. The cows are giving the best milk and give birth to the friskiest calves. We ourselves will have to see what is going on there. Let's hide in the barn tonight and see what happens."And they did just that.They heard a rustling in the hayloft above them. Then they heard little footsteps, like those of a child, and a tiny little man jumped down and shook the hay out of his hair. Finally he stood still   oh dear!   totally naked in the middle of the threshing floor. He distributed the hay and brushed down the cows. Everything went lightning fast. The little man was soon finished, and he instantly disappeared.The peasant's wife was concerned that it was a cold winter, especially at New Year. "Let's have trousers and a jacket made for him," she said.So it happened, and on New Year's Day they laid out the new suit of clothes in the hayloft for the little man.Newly dressed, he walked back and forth on the threshing floor. Clapping himself on the chest, he called out ernestly, "That a man such as I should be doing a herder's work!"With that he disappeared forever from Buttwil as well.