A bear trainer with his dancing bear once came to an isolated mill andasked the miller to take them in for the night, as there was no villagefar and wide, and night was already falling."I would be glad to take you in," said the miller, "if you are notafraid, for a water man comes into the mill every night and plays prankson anyone sleeping or even just passing time in the grinding room, and Idon't have room for you anywhere else.""What sort of pranks?" asked the bear trainer."Just practical jokes," replied the miller, "but they make the peoplewho come to the mill angry, and they won't come back. I've lost a lot ofcustomers because of this. Once he smeared pitch on someone's boot soles,so that he stuck to the floor when he stood up. He poured water intosomeone else's boots, or sprinkled bran in their hair. He sewed anotherperson's pockets shut. Once he even put someone who was sleeping in themill into a sack and hung it on a beam, and more such pranks.""If that's all there is, it won' bother me," said the bear trainer."I'll stay."So the miller put a bundle of straw on the floor for him, and the manlay down with the bear at his side, and they slept until twelve o'clock.The trainer was awakened by the bear's roaring. He jumped up and saw thebear wrestling with the water man. The latter had never seen a bearbefore, and when he took hold of the bear's fur, the bear held him tightlywith his paws.The trainer quickly went to the mill and started it running. Then hegrabbed the water man by his feet. The bear held him up, and thus they sethim on the millstone and held him there, in spite of his cries, until halfof his behind had been ground away. Then they let him go, and went back tosleep.Early the next morning the miller came out and was amazed that both ofthem were sleeping so soundly. When the trainer woke up he told the millerabout their last night's adventure, at which the miller had to laugh untilhe held his belly.As they parted, the miller gave presents to the bear trainer, andinvited him to stay with him the next time he came that way. Then he lithis pipe and lay down contentedly near the window.A little dwarf came up to him. He was wearing yellow trousers, abright red vest, a green jacket, and a blue cap. He said to the smoker,"Miller, do you still have that big cat?""Yes," said the latter, "I still have her.""Farewell then. You'll never see me again," he said, and trottedaway.