Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou.You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or morecontented, for he had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, adaughter called Barbaik, the most graceful dancer and the best dressedgirl in the whole country side. When she appeared on holidays in herembroidered cap, five petticoats, each one a little shorter than theother, and shoes with silver buckles, the women were all filled withenvy, but little cared Barbaik what they might whisper behind her backas long as she knew that her clothes were finer than anyone else's andthat she had more partners than any other girl.Now amongst all the young men who wanted to marry Barbaik, the one whoseheart was most set on her was her father's head man, but as his mannerswere rough and he was exceedingly ugly she would have nothing to say tohim, and, what was worse, often made fun of him with the rest.Jegu, for that was his name, of course heard of this, and it made himvery unhappy. Still he would not leave the farm, and look for workelsewhere, as he might have done, for then he would never see Barbaik atall, and what was life worth to him without that?One evening he was bringing back his horses from the fields, and stoppedat a little lake on the way home to let them drink. He was tired witha long day's work, and stood with his hand on the mane of one of theanimals, waiting till they had done, and thinking all the while ofBarbaik, when a voice came out of the gorse close by.'What is the matter, Jegu? You mustn't despair yet.'The young man glanced up in surprise, and asked who was there.'It is I, the brownie of the lake,' replied the voice.'But where are you?' inquired Jegu.'Look close, and you will see me among the reeds in the form of a littlegreen frog. I can take,' he added proudly, 'any shape I choose, andeven, which is much harder, be invisible if I want to.''Then show yourself to me in the shape in which your family generallyappear,' replied Jegu.'Certainly, if you wish,' and the frog jumped on the back of one of thehorses, and changed into a little dwarf, all dressed in green.This transformation rather frightened Jegu, but the brownie bade himhave no fears, for he would not do him any harm. indeed, he hoped thatJegu might find him of some use.'But why should you take all this interest in me?' asked the peasantsuspiciously.'Because of a service you did me last winter, which I have neverforgotten,' answered the little fellow. 'You know, I am sure, thatthe korigans who dwell in the White Corncountry have declared war on my people, because they say that they arethe friends of man. We were therefore obliged to take refuge in distantlands, and to hide ourselves at first under different animal shapes.Since that time, partly from habit and partly to amuse ourselves, wehave continued to transform ourselves, and it was in this way that I gotto know you.''How?' exclaimed Jegu, filled with astonishment.'Do you remember when you were digging in the field near the river,three months ago, you found a robin redbreast caught in a net?'Yes,' answered Jegu, 'I remember it very well, and I opened the net andlet him go.''Well, I was that robin redbreast, and ever since I have vowed to beyour friend, and as you want to marry Barbaik, I will prove the truth ofwhat I say by helping you to do so.''Ah! my little brownie, if you can do that, there is nothing I won'tgive you, except my soul.''Then let me alone,' rejoined the dwarf, 'and I promise you that in avery few months you shall be master of the farm and of Barbaik.''But how are you going to do it?' exclaimed Jegu wonderingly.'That is my affair. Perhaps I may tell you later. Meanwhile you just eatand sleep, and don't worry yourself about anything.'Jegu declared that nothing could be easier, and then taking off his hat,he thanked the dwarf heartily, and led his horses back to the farm.Next morning was a holiday, and Barbaik was awake earlier than usual, asshe wished to get through her work as soon as possible, and be ready tostart for a dance which was to be held some distance off. She wentfirst to the cow house, which it was her duty to keep clean, but to heramazement she found fresh straw put down, the racks filled with hay, thecows milked, and the pails standing neatly in a row.'Of course, Jegu must have done this in the hope of my giving him adance,' she thought to herself, and when she met him outside the doorshe stopped and thanked him for his help. To be sure, Jegu only repliedroughly that he didn't know what she was talking about, but this answermade her feel all the more certain that it was he and nobody else.The same thing took place every day, and never had the cow house been soclean nor the cows so fat. Morning and evening Barbaik found her earthenpots full of milk and a pound of butter freshly churned, ornamentedwith leaves. At the end of a few weeks she grew so used to this state ofaffairs that she only got up just in time to prepare breakfast.Soon even this grew to be unnecessary, for a day arrived when, comingdownstairs, she discovered that the house was swept, the furniturepolished, the fire lit, and the food ready, so that she had nothing todo except to ring the great bell which summoned the labourers from thefields to come and eat it. This, also, she thought was the work of Jegu,and she could not help feeling that a husband of this sort would be veryuseful to a girl who liked to lie in bed and to amuse herself.Indeed, Barbaik had only to express a wish for it to be satisfied. Ifthe wind was cold or the sun was hot and she was afraid to go out lesther complexion should be spoilt, she need only to run down to the springclose by and say softly, 'I should like my churns to be full, and mywet linen to be stretched on the hedge to dry,' and she need never giveanother thought to the matter.If she found the rye bread too hard to bake, or the oven taking too longto heat, she just murmured, 'I should like to see my six loaves on theshelf above the bread box,' and two hours after there they were.If she was too lazy to walk all the way to market along a dirty road,she would say out loud the night before, 'Why am I not already back fromMorlaix with my milk pot empty, my butter bowl inside it, a pound ofwild cherries on my wooden plate, and the money I have gained in myapron pocket?' and in the morning when she got up, lo and behold! therewere standing at the foot of her bed the empty milk pot with the butterbowl inside, the black cherries on the wooden plate, and six new piecesof silver in the pocket of her apron. And she believed that all thiswas owing to Jegu, and she could no longer do without him, even in herthoughts.When things had reached this pass, the brownie told the young man thathe had better ask Barbaik to marry him, and this time the girl did notturn rudely away, but listened patiently to the end. In her eyes he wasas ugly and awkward as ever, but he would certainly make a most usefulhusband, and she could sleep every morning till breakfast time, justlike a young lady, and as for the rest of the day, it would not behalf long enough for all she meant to do. She would wear the beautifuldresses that came when she wished for them, and visit her neighbours,who would be dying of envy all the while, and she would be able to danceas much as she wished. Jegu would always be there to work for her andsave for her, and watch over her. So, like a well brought up girl,Barbaik answered that it should be as her father pleased, knowing quitewell that old Riou had often said that after he was dead there was noone so capable of carrying on the farm.The marriage took place the following month, and a few days later theold man died quite suddenly. Now Jegu had everything to see to himself,and somehow it did not seem so easy as when the farmer was alive. Butonce more the brownie stepped in, and was better than ten labourers.It was he who ploughed and sowed and reaped, and if, as happened,occasionally, it was needful to get the work done quickly, the browniecalled in some of his friends, and as soon as it was light a host oflittle dwarfs might have been seen in the fields, busy with hoe, fork orsickle. But by the time the people were about all was finished, and thelittle fellows had disappeared.And all the payment the brownie ever asked for was a bowl of broth. Fromthe very day of her marriage Barbaik had noted with surprise and ragethat things ceased to be done for her as they had been done all theweeks and months before. She complained to Jegu of his laziness, and heonly stared at her, not understanding what she was talking about. Butthe brownie, who was standing by, burst out laughing, and confessed thatall the good offices she spoke of had been performed by him, for thesake of Jegu, but that now he had other business to do, and it was hightime that she looked after her house herself.Barbaik was furious. Each morning when she was obliged to get up beforedawn to milk the cows and go to market, and each evening when she had tosit up till midnight in order to churn the butter, her heart was filledwith rage against the brownie who had caused her to expect a life ofease and pleasure. But when she looked at Jegu and beheld his red face,squinting eyes, and untidy hair, her anger was doubled.'If it had not been for you, you miserable dwarf!' she would say betweenher teeth, 'if it had not been for you I should never have married thatman, and I should still have been going to dances, where the young menwould have brought me present of nuts and cherries, and told me thatI was the prettiest girl in the parish. While now I can receive nopresents except from my husband. I can never dance, except with myhusband. Oh, you wretched dwarf, I will never, never forgive you!'In spite of her fierce words, no one knew better than Barbaik how toput her pride in her pocket when it suited her, and after receiving aninvitation to a wedding, she begged the brownie to get her a horse toride there. To her great joy he consented, bidding her set out for thecity of the dwarfs and to tell them exactly what she wanted. Full ofexcitement, Barbaik started on her journey. It was not long, and whenshe reached the town she went straight to the dwarfs, who were holdingcounsel in a wide green place, and said to them, 'Listen, my friends! Ihave come to beg you to lend me a black horse, with eyes, a mouth, ears,bridle and saddle.'She had hardly spoken when the horse appeared, and mounting on his backshe started for the village where the wedding was to be held.At first she was so delighted with the chance of a holiday from the workwhich she hated, that she noticed nothing, but very soon it struckher as odd that as she passed along the roads full of people they alllaughed as they looked at her horse. At length she caught some wordsuttered by one man to another. 'Why, the farmer's wife has sold herhorse's tail!' and turned in her saddle. Yes. it was true. Her horsehad no tail! She had forgotten to ask for one, and the wicked dwarfs hadcarried out her orders to the letter!'Well, at any rate, I shall soon be there,' she thought, and shakingthe reins, tried to urge the horse to a gallop. But it was of no use. hedeclined to move out of a walk. and she was forced to hear all the jokesthat were made upon her.In the evening she returned to the farm more angry than ever, andquite determined to revenge herself on the brownie whenever she had thechance, which happened to be very soon.It was the spring, and just the time of year when the dwarfs held theirfete, so one day the brownie asked Jegu if he might bring his friends tohave supper in the great barn, and whether he would allow them to dancethere. Of course, Jegu was only too pleased to be able to do anythingfor the brownie, and he ordered Barbaik to spread her best table clothsin the barn, and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes,and, besides, to keep all the milk given by the cows that morning. Heexpected she would refuse, as he knew she hated the dwarfs, but she saidnothing, and prepared the supper as he had bidden her.When all was ready, the dwarfs, in new green suits, came bustling in,very happy and merry, and took their seats at the table. But in a momentthey all sprang up with a cry, and ran away screaming, for Barbaik hadplaced pans of hot coals under their feet, and all their poor littletoes were burnt.'You won't forget that in a hurry,' she said, smiling grimly to herself,but in a moment they were back again with large pots of water, whichthey poured on the fire. Then they joined hands and danced round it,singing:Wicked traitress, Barne Riou,Our poor toes are burned by you.Now we hurry from your hall Bad luck light upon you all.That evening they left the country for ever, and Jegu, without theirhelp, grew poorer and poorer, and at last died of misery, while Barbaikwas glad to find work in the market of Morlaix.From 'Le Foyer Breton,' par E. Souvestre.