There is an old tale told in Erin of a lovable and bright and handsomeyouth named Donn bo, who was the best singer of "Songs of Idleness" andthe best teller of "King Stories" in the world. He could tell a tale ofeach king who reigned in Erin, from the "Tale of the Destruction of DindRigh," when Cova Coelbre was killed, down to the kings who reigned inhis own time.On a night before a battle, the warriors said, "Make minstrelsy to nightfor us, Donn bo." But Donn bo answered, "No word at all will come on mylips to night. therefore, for this night let the King buffoon of Irelandamuse you. But to morrow, at this hour, in whatsoever place they and Ishall be, I will make minstrelsy for the fighting men." For the warriorshad said that unless Donn bo would go with them on that hosting, not oneof them would go.The battle was past, and on the evening of the morrow at that same hourDonn bo lay dead, his fair young body stretched across the body of theKing of Ireland, for he had died in defending his chief. But his headhad rolled away among a wisp of growing rushes by the waterside.At the feasting of the army on that night a warrior said, "Where isDonn bo, that he may make minstrelsy for us, as he promised us at thishour yesternight, and that he may tell us the 'King Stories of Erin'?"A valiant champion of the men of Munster answered, "I will go over thebattle field and seek for him." He enquired among the living forDonn bo, but he found him not, and then he searched hither and thitheramong the dead.At last he came where the body of the King of Erin lay, and a young,fair corpse beside it. In all the air about there was the sound ofminstrelsy, low and very sweet. dead bards and poets reciting in faintwhispers old tales and poems to dead chiefs.The wild, clear note of the battle march, the _dord fiansa_, played bythe drooping hands of slain warriors upon the points of broken spears,low like the echo of an echo, sounded in the clump of rushes hard by.and, above them all, a voice, faint and very still, that sang a songthat was sweeter than the tunes of the whole world beside.The voice that sang was the voice of the head of Donn bo. The warriorstooped to pick up the head."Do not touch me," said the head, "for we are commanded by the King ofthe Plains of Heaven to make music to night for our lord, the King ofErin, the shining one who lies dead beside us. and though all of us arelying dead likewise, no faintness or feebleness shall prevent us fromobeying that command. Disturb me not.""The hosts of Leinster are asking thee to make minstrelsy for them, asthou didst promise yesternight," said the messenger."When my minstrelsy here is done, I will go with thee," saith the head."but only if Christ, the Son of God, in whose presence I now am, go withme, and if thou takest me to my body again." "That shall be done,indeed," saith the messenger, and when it had ceased chanting for theKing of Erin he carried away the head.When the messenger came again amongst the warriors they stopped theirfeasting and gathered round him. "Hast thou brought anything from thebattle field?" they cried."I have brought the head of Donn bo," said the man."Set it upon a pillar that we may see and hear it," cried they all. andthey said, "It is no luck for thee to be like that, Donn bo, and thouthe most beautiful minstrel and the best in Erin. Make music, for thelove of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Amuse the Leinster men to night asthou didst amuse thy lord a while ago."Then Donn bo turned his face to the wall, that the darkness might bearound him, and he raised his melody in the quiet night. and the soundof that minstrelsy was so piteous and sad that the hosts sat weeping atthe sound of it. Then was the head taken to his body, and the neckjoined itself to the shoulders again, and Donn bo was at rest.This is the story of the "Talking Head of Donn bo."ELEANOR HULL.