A beautiful woman, whose husband had traveled abroad, fell in love witha handsome young man, who in turn came into difficulty with the law.Claiming that the young man was her brother, she asked the wali to supporthis case, and he acceded, but only if she would be his lover. Sheconsented, giving him her address and setting a time for their tryst. Shenext petitioned a qadi. He too agreed to intercede on her brother'sbehalf, in return for her love, and she set the same time for his arrivalthat had been reserved for the wali. Then she went to a vizier, who, likethe others, pledged his help, in exchange for her promise of intimacy, andhis appointment was set for the same time as his predecessors. Next shetook her petition to the king, and he too guaranteed a good outcome forher brother's case, if she would accept him as a lover. The arrangementswere quickly made.The woman then went to a carpenter and ordered from him a cabinet withfour compartments, one above the other. "My price is four dinars or youraffection" he said."Let it be the latter," she replied. "But only if you make a cabinetwith five compartments, instead of four." The carpenter consented. Thework was soon finished, and she told him when to return for his promisedreward.The appointed trysting day came. The qadi was the first to arrive, andshe asked him to take off his clothes and put on a brightly colored,strangely cut robe. He had scarcely done so when there was a knock at thedoor. "It is my husband!" she cried. "Hide in the cabinet!" And she lockedhim in the lowermost compartment. So it went with the wali, the vizier,and the king.The carpenter was the last to arrive. She lured him into the cabinet'stop compartment by complaining that, contrary to her instructions, it hadbeen built too narrow to hold a man. "Not so," said the carpenter, andclimbed inside to prove his claim. The woman locked the door on her finalsuitor, and then abandoned the place, departing with her young lover foranother city.Three days passed, and the carpenter, unable to hold his water anylonger, relieved himself on the man beneath him. Each captive did thesame, turning the cabinet into a sewer of filth. With time the neighborsentered the woman's lodgings and freed the befouled and strangely costumedsuitors. Thus ends the story of the woman who tricked her fivesuitors.