In a country which is full of wild beasts of all sorts there once liveda jackal and a hedgehog, and, unlike though they were, the two animalsmade great friends, and were often seen in each other's company.One afternoon they were walking along a road together, when the jackal,who was the taller of the two, exclaimed:'Oh! there is a barn full of corn. let us go and eat some.''Yes, do let us!' answered the hedgehog. So they went to the barn, andate till they could eat no more. Then the jackal put on his shoes,which he had taken off so as to make no noise, and they returned to thehigh road.After they had gone some way they met a panther, who stopped, andbowing politely, said:'Excuse my speaking to you, but I cannot help admiring those shoes ofyours. Do you mind telling me who made them?''Yes, I think they are rather nice,' answered the jackal. 'I made themmyself, though.''Could you make me a pair like them?' asked the panther eagerly.'I would do my best, of course,' replied the jackal. 'but you must killme a cow, and when we have eaten the flesh I will take the skin andmake your shoes out of it.'So the panther prowled about until he saw a fine cow grazing apart fromthe rest of the herd. He killed it instantly, and then gave a cry tothe jackal and hedgehog to come to the place where he was. They soonskinned the dead beasts, and spread its skin out to dry, after whichthey had a grand feast before they curled themselves up for the night,and slept soundly.Next morning the jackal got up early and set to work upon the shoes,while the panther sat by and looked on with delight. At last they werefinished, and the jackal arose and stretched himself.'Now go and lay them in the sun out there,' said he. 'in a couple ofhours they will be ready to put on. but do not attempt to wear thembefore, or you will feel them most uncomfortable. But I see the sun ishigh in the heavens, and we must be continuing our journey.'The panther, who always believed what everybody told him, did exactlyas he was bid, and in two hours' time began to fasten on the shoes.They certainly set off his paws wonderfully, and he stretched out hisforepaws and looked at them with pride. But when he tried to walk ah!that was another story! They were so stiff and hard that he nearlyshrieked every step he took, and at last he sank down where he was, andactually began to cry.After some time some little partridges who were hopping about heard thepoor panther's groans, and went up to see what was the matter. He hadnever tried to make his dinner off them, and they had always been quitefriendly.'You seem in pain,' said one of them, fluttering close to him, 'can wehelp you?''Oh, it is the jackal! He made me these shoes. they are so hard andtight that they hurt my feet, and I cannot manage to kick them off.''Lie still, and we will soften them,' answered the kind littlepartridge. And calling to his brothers, they all flew to the nearestspring, and carried water in their beaks, which they poured over theshoes. This they did till the hard leather grew soft, and the pantherwas able to slip his feet out of them.'Oh, thank you, thank you,' he cried, skipping round with joy. 'I feela different creature. Now I will go after the jackal and pay him mydebts.' And he bounded away into the forest.But the jackal had been very cunning, and had trotted backwards andforwards and in and out, so that it was very difficult to know whichtrack he had really followed. At length, however, the panther caughtsight of his enemy, at the same moment that the jackal had caught sightof him. The panther gave a loud roar, and sprang forward, but thejackal was too quick for him and plunged into a dense thicket, wherethe panther could not follow.Disgusted with his failure, but more angry than ever, the panther laydown for a while to consider what he should do next, and as he wasthinking, an old man came by.'Oh! father, tell me how I can repay the jackal for the way he hasserved me!' And without more ado he told his story.'If you take my advice,' answered the old man, 'you will kill a cow,and invite all the jackals in the forest to the feast. Watch themcarefully while they are eating, and you will see that most of themkeep their eyes on their food. But if one of them glances at you, youwill know that is the traitor.'The panther, whose manners were always good, thanked the old man, andfollowed his counsel. The cow was killed, and the partridges flewabout with invitations to the jackals, who gathered in large numbers tothe feast. The wicked jackal came amongst them. but as the panther hadonly seen him once he could not distinguish him from the rest.However, they all took their places on wooden seats placed round thedead cow, which was laid across the boughs of a fallen tree, and begantheir dinner, each jackal fixing his eyes greedily on the piece of meatbefore him. Only one of them seemed uneasy, and every now and thenglanced in the direction of his host. This the panther noticed, andsuddenly made a bound at the culprit and seized his tail. but again thejackal was too quick for him, and catching up a knife he cut off histail and darted into the forest, followed by all the rest of the party.And before the panther had recovered from his surprise he foundhimself alone.'What am I to do now?' he asked the old man, who soon came back to seehow things had turned out.'It is very unfortunate, certainly,' answered he. 'but I think I knowwhere you can find him. There is a melon garden about two miles fromhere, and as jackals are very fond of melons they are nearly sure tohave gone there to feed. If you see a tailless jackal you will knowthat he is the one you want.' So the panther thanked him and went hisway.Now the jackal had guessed what advice the old man would give hisenemy, and so, while his friends were greedily eating the ripest melonsin the sunniest corner of the garden, he stole behind them and tiedtheir tails together. He had only just finished when his ears caughtthe sound of breaking branches. and he cried: 'Quick! quick! here comesthe master of the garden!' And the jackals sprang up and ran away inall directions, leaving their tails behind them. And how was thepanther to know which was his enemy?'They none of them had any tails,' he said sadly to the old man, 'and Iam tired of hunting them. I shall leave them alone and go and catchsomething for supper.'Of course the hedgehog had not been able to take part in any of theseadventures. but as soon as all danger was over, the jackal went to lookfor his friend, whom he was lucky enough to find at home.'Ah, there you are,' he said gaily. 'I have lost my tail since I sawyou last. And other people have lost theirs too. but that is nomatter! I am hungry, so come with me to the shepherd who is sittingover there, and we will ask him to sell us one of his sheep.''Yes, that is a good plan,' answered the hedgehog. And he walked asfast as his little legs would go to keep up with the jackal. When theyreached the shepherd the jackal pulled out his purse from under hisforeleg, and made his bargain.'Only wait till to morrow,' said the shepherd, 'and I will give you thebiggest sheep you ever saw. But he always feeds at some distance fromthe rest of the flock, and it would take me a long time to catch him.''Well, it is very tiresome, but I suppose I must wait,' replied thejackal. And he and the hedgehog looked about for a nice dry cave inwhich to make themselves comfortable for the night. But, after theyhad gone, the shepherd killed one of his sheep, and stripped off hisskin, which he sewed tightly round a greyhound he had with him, and puta cord round its neck. Then he lay down and went to sleep.Very, very early, before the sun was properly up, the jackal and thehedgehog were pulling at the shepherd's cloak.'Wake up,' they said, 'and give us that sheep. We have had nothing toeat all night, and are very hungry.'The shepherd yawned and rubbed his eyes. 'He is tied up to that tree.go and take him.' So they went to the tree and unfastened the cord,and turned to go back to the cave where they had slept, dragging thegreyhound after them. When they reached the cave the jackal said tothe hedgehog.'Before I kill him let me see whether he is fat or thin.' And he stooda little way back, so that he might the better examine the animal.After looking at him, with his head on one side, for a minute or two,he nodded gravely.'He is quite fat enough. he is a good sheep.'But the hedgehog, who sometimes showed more cunning than anyone wouldhave guessed, answered:'My friend, you are talking nonsense. The wool is indeed a sheep'swool, but the paws of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath.''He is a sheep,' repeated the jackal, who did not like to think anyonecleverer than himself.'Hold the cord while I look at him,' answered the hedgehog.Very unwillingly the jackal held the rope, while the hedgehog walkedslowly round the greyhound till he reached the jackal again. He knewquite well by the paws and tail that it was a greyhound and not asheep, that the shepherd had sold them. and as he could not tell whatturn affairs might take, he resolved to get out of the way.'Oh! yes, you are right,' he said to the jackal. 'but I never can eattill I have first drunk. I will just go and quench my thirst from thatspring at the edge of the wood, and then I shall be ready forbreakfast.''Don't be long, then,' called the jackal, as the hedgehog hurried offat his best pace. And he lay down under a rock to wait for him.More than an hour passed by and the hedgehog had had plenty of time togo to the spring and back, and still there was no sign of him. Andthis was very natural, as he had hidden himself in some long grassunder a tree!At length the jackal guessed that for some reason his friend had runaway, and determined to wait for his breakfast no longer. So he wentup to the place where the greyhound had been tethered and untied therope. But just as he was about to spring on his back and give him adeadly bite, the jackal heard a low growl, which never proceeded fromthe throat of any sheep. Like a flash of lightning the jackal threwdown the cord and was flying across the plain. but though his legs werelong, the greyhound's legs were longer still, and he soon came up withhis prey. The jackal turned to fight, but he was no match for thegreyhound, and in a few minutes he was lying dead on the ground, whilethe greyhound was trotting peacefully back to the shepherd.