Fairy Legends and Traditions of the South ofIrelandMrs. Sullivan fancied that her youngest child had been exchanged by"fairies theft," and certainly appearances warranted such a conclusion.for in one night her healthy, blue eyed boy had become shrivelled up intoalmost nothing, and never ceased squalling and crying. This naturallymade poor Mrs. Sullivan very unhappy. and all the neighbors, by way ofcomforting her, said that her own child was, beyond any kind of doubt,with the good people, and that one of themselves was put in his place.Mrs. Sullivan of course could not disbelieve what every one told her, butshe did not wish to hurt the thing. for although its face was sowithered, and its body wasted away to a mere skeleton, it had still astrong resemblance to her own boy. She, therefore, could not find it inher heart to roast it alive on the griddle, or to burn its nose off withthe red hot tongs, or to throw it out in the snow on the roadside,notwithstanding these, and several like proceedings, were stronglyrecommended to her for the recovery of her child.One day who should Mrs. Sullivan meet but a cunning woman, well knownabout the country by the name of Ellen Leah (or Grey Ellen). She had thegift, however she got it, of telling where the dead were, and what wasgood for the rest of their souls. and could charm away warts and wens,and do a great many wonderful things of the same nature."You're in grief this morning, Mrs. Sullivan," were the first words ofEllen Leah to her."You may say that, Ellen," said Mrs. Sullivan, "and good cause I have tobe in grief, for there was my own fine child whipped off from me out ofhis cradle, without as much as 'by your leave' or 'ask you pardon,' andan ugly dony bit of of a shrivelled up fairy put in his place. no wonder,then, that you see me in grief, Ellen.""Small blame to you, Mrs. Sullivan," said Ellen Leah, "but are you sure'tis a fairy?""Sure!" echoed Mrs. Sullivan, "sure enough I am to my sorrow, and can Idoubt my own two eyes? Every mother's soul must feel for me!""Will you take an old woman's advice?" said Ellen Leah, fixing her wildand mysterious gaze upon the unhappy mother. and, after a pause, sheadded, "but maybe you'll call it foolish?""Can you get me back my child, my own child, Ellen?" said Mrs. Sullivanwith great energy."If you do as I bid you," returned Ellen Leah, "you'll know." Mrs.Sullivan was silent in expectation, and Ellen continued, "Put down thebig pot, full of water, on the fire, and make it boil like mad. then geta dozen new laid eggs, break them, and keep the shells, but throw awaythe rest. when that is done, put the shells in the pot of boiling water,and you will soon know whether it is your own boy or a fairy. If youfind that it is a fairy in the cradle, take the red hot poker and cram indown his ugly throat, and you will not have much trouble with him afterthat I promise you."Home went Mrs. Sullivan, and did as Ellen Leah desired. She put the poton the fire, and plenty of turf under it, and set the water boiling assuch a rate, that if ever water was red hot, it surely was.The child was lying, for a wonder, quite easy and quiet in the cradle,very now and then cocking his eye, that would twinkle as keen as a starin a frosty night, over at the great fire, and the big pot upon it. andhe looked on with great attention at Mrs. Sullivan breaking the eggs andputting down the eggshells to boil. At last he asked, with the voice ofa very old man, "What are you doing mammy?"Mrs. Sullivan's heart, as she said herself, was up in her mouth ready tochoke her, at hearing the child speak. But she contrived to put thepoker in the fire, and to answer, without making any wonder at the words,"I'm brewing, a vick " (my son)."And what are you brewing, mammy?" said the little imp, whosesupernatural gift of speech now proved beyond question that he was afairy substitute."I wish the poker was red," thought Mrs. Sullivan. but it was a largeone, and took a long time heating. so she determined to keep him in talkuntil the poker was in a proper state to thrust down his throat, andtherefore repeated the question."Is it what I'm brewing, a vick, " said she, "you want to know?""Yes, mammy: what are you brewing?" returned the fairy."Eggshells, a vick, " said Mrs. Sullivan."Oh!" shrieked the imp, starting up in the cradle, and clapping his handstogether, "I'm fifteen hundred years in the world, and I never saw abrewery of eggshells before!" The poker was by this time quite red, andMrs. Sullivan, seizing it, ran furiously towards the cradle. but somehowor other her foot slipped, and she fell flat on the floor, and the pokerflew out of her hand to the other end of the house.However, she got up without much loss of time and went to the cradle,intending to pitch the wicked thing that was in it into the pot ofboiling water, when there she saw her own child in a sweet sleep, one ofhis soft round arms rested upon the pillow his features were as placidas if their repose had never been disturbed, save the rosy mouth, whichmoved with a gentle and regular breathing.