Verily a strange tale is mine and 'tis this: Yon two blackbitches are my eldest sisters by one mother and father. and thesetwo others, she who beareth upon her the signs of stripes and thethird our procuratrix are my sisters by another mother. When myfather died, each took her share of the heritage and, after awhile my mother also deceased, leaving me and my sisters germanthree thousand diners. so each daughter received her portion of athousand diners and I the same, albe the youngest. In due courseof time my sisters married with the usual festivities and livedwith their husbands, who bought merchandise with their wivesmonies and set out on their travels together. Thus they threw meoff. My brothers in law were absent with their wives five years,during which period they spent all the money they had and,becoming bankrupt, deserted my sisters in foreign parts amidstranger folk. After five years my eldest sister returned to mein beggar's gear with her clothes in rags and tatters anda dirty old mantilla. and truly she was in the foulestand sorriest plight. At first sight I did not know my own sister.but presently I recognised her and said "What state is this?" "Oour sister," she replied, "Words cannot undo the done. and thereed of Destiny hath run through what Allah decreed." Then I senther to the bath and dressed her in a suit of mine own, and boiledfor her a bouillon and brought her some good wine and said toher, "O my sister, thou art the eldest, who still standest to usin the stead of father and mother. and, as for the inheritancewhich came to me as to you twain, Allah hath blessed it andprospered it to me with increase. and my circumstances are easy,for I have made much money by spinning and cleaning silk. and Iand you will share my wealth alike." I entreated her with allkindliness and she abode with me a whole year, during which ourthoughts and fancies were always full of our other sister. Shortlyafter she too came home in yet fouler and sorrier plight thanthat of my eldest sister. and I dealt by her still more honorablythan I had done by the first, and each of them had a share of mysubstance. After a time they said to me, 'O our sister, we desireto marry again, for indeed we have not patience to drag on ourdays without husbands and to lead the lives of widows bewitched."and I replied, "O eyes of me! ye have hitherto seenscanty weal in wedlock, for now a days good men and true arebecome rarities and curiosities. nor do I deem your projectsadvisable, as ye have already made trial of matrimony and havefailed." But they would not accept my advice and married withoutmy consent: nevertheless I gave them outfit and dowries out of mymoney. and they fared forth with their mates. In a mighty littletime their husbands played them false and, taking whatever theycould lay hands upon, levanted and left them in the lurch.Thereupon they came to me ashamed and in abject case and madetheir excuses to me, saying, Pardon our fault and be not wrothwith us. for although thou art younger in years yet artthou older in wit. henceforth we will never make mention ofmarriage. so take us back as thy hand maidens that we may eat ourmouthful." Quoth I, "Welcome to you, O my sisters, there isnaught dearer to me than you." And I took them in and redoubledmy kindness to them. We ceased not to live after this lovingfashion for a full year, when I resolved to sell my wares abroadand first to fit me a conveyance for Bassorah. so I equipped alarge ship, and loaded her with merchandise and valuable goodsfor traffic, and with provaunt and all needful for a voyage, andsaid to my sisters, "Will ye abide at home whilst I travel, orwould ye prefer to accompany me on the voyage?" "We will travelwith thee," answered they, "for we cannot bear to be parted fromthee." So I divided my monies into two parts, one to accompany meand the other to be left in charge of a trusty person, for, as Isaid to myself, "Haply some accident may happen to the ship andyet we remain alive. in which case we shall find on our returnwhat may stand us in good stead." I took my two sisters and wewent a voyaging some days and nights. but the master was carelessenough to miss his course, and the ship went astray with us andentered a sea other than the sea we sought. For a time we knewnaught of this. and the wind blew fair for us ten days, afterwhich the look out man went aloft to see about him and cried,"Good news!" Then he came down rejoicing and said, "I have seenwhat seemeth to be a city as 'twere a pigeon." Hereat we rejoicedand, ere an hour of the day had passed, the buildings showedplain in the offing and we asked the Captain, "What is the nameof yonder city?" and he answered By Allah I wot not, for I neversaw it before and never sailed these seas in my life: but, sinceour troubles have ended in safety, remains for you only to landthere with your merchandise and, if you find selling profitable,sell and make your market of what is there. and if not, we willrest here two days and provision ourselves and fare away." So weentered the port and the Captain went up town and was absentawhile, after which he returned to us and said, "Arise. go upinto the city and marvel at the works of Allah with His creaturesand pray to be preserved from His righteous wrath!" So we landedand going up into the city, saw at the gate men hending staves inhand. but when we drew near them, behold, they had beentranslated by the anger of Allah and had become stones.Then we entered the city and found all who therein woned intoblack stones enstoned: not an inhabited house appeared to theespier, nor was there a blower of fire. We were awestruck at the sight and threaded the market streets where wefound the goods and gold and silver left lying in their places.and we were glad and said, "Doubtless there is some mystery inall this." Then we dispersed about the thorough fares and eachbusied himself with collecting the wealth and money and richstuffs, taking scanty heed of friend or comrade. As for myself Iwent up to the castle which was strongly fortified. and, enteringthe King's palace by its gate of red gold, found all the vaiselleof gold and silver, and the King himself seated in the midst ofhis Chamberlains and Nabobs and Emirs and Wazirs. all clad inraiment which confounded man's art. I drew nearer and saw himsitting on a throne incrusted and inlaid with pearls and gems.and his robes were of gold cloth adorned with jewels of everykind, each one flashing like a star. Around him stood fiftyMamelukes, white slaves, clothed in silks of divers sorts holdingtheir drawn swords in their hands. but when I drew near to themlo! all were black stones. My understanding was confounded at thesight, but I walked on and entered the great hall of theHarim, whose walls I found hung with tapestries of goldstriped silk and spread with silken carpets embroidered withgolden cowers. Here I saw the Queen lying at full length arrayedin robes purfled with fresh young pearls. on her head wasa diadem set with many sorts of gems each fit for a ringand around her neck hung collars and necklaces. All her raimentand her ornaments were in natural state but she had been turnedinto a black stone by Allah's wrath. Presently I espied an opendoor for which I made straight and found leading to it a flightof seven steps. So I walked up and came upon a place pargettedwith marble and spread and hung with gold worked carpets andtapestry, amiddlemostof which stood a throne of juniper woodinlaid with pearls and precious stones and set with bosses ofemeralds. In the further wall was an alcove whose curtains,bestrung with pearls, were let down and I saw a light issuingtherefrom. so I drew near and perceived that the light came froma precious stone as big as an ostrich egg, set at the upper endof the alcove upon a little chryselephantine couch of ivory andgold. and this jewel, blazing like the sun, cast its rays wideand side. The couch also was spread with all manner of silkenstuffs amazing the gazer with their richness and beauty. Imarvelled much at all this, especially when seeing in that placecandles ready lighted. and I said in my mind, "Needs must someone have lighted these candles." Then I went forth and came tothe kitchen and thence to the buttery and the King's treasurechambers. and continued to explore the palace and to pace fromplace to place. I forgot myself in my awe and marvel at thesematters and I was drowned in thought till the night came on. ThenI would have gone forth, but knowing not the gate I lost my way,so I returned to the alcove whither the lighted candles directedme and sat down upon the couch. and wrapping myself in acoverlet, after I had repeated somewhat from the Koran, I wouldhave slept but could not, for restlessness possessed me. Whennight was at its noon I heard a voice chanting the Koran insweetest accents. but the tone thereof was weak. so I rose, gladto hear the silence broken, and followed the sound until Ireached a closet whose door stood ajar. Then peeping through achink I considered the place and lo! it was an oratory whereinwas a prayer niche with two wax candles burning and lampshanging from the ceiling. In it too was spread a prayer carpetwhereupon sat a youth fair to see. and before him on itsstand was a copy of the Koran, from which he was reading.I marvelled to see him alone alive amongst the people of the cityand entering saluted him. whereupon he raised his eyes andreturned my salam. Quoth I, "Now by the Truth of what thoureadest in Allah's Holy Book, I conjure thee to answer myquestion." He looked upon me with a smile and said, "O handmaidof Allah, first tell me the cause of thy coming hither, and I inturn will tell what hath befallen both me and the people of thiscity, and what was the reason of my escaping their doom." So Itold him my story whereat he wondered. and I questioned him ofthe people of the city, when he replied, "Have patience with mefor a while, O my sister!" and, reverently closing the Holy Book,he laid it up in a satin bag. Then he seated me by his side. andI looked at him and behold, he was as the moon at its full, fairof face and rare of form, soft sided and slight, of wellproportioned height, and cheek smoothly bright and diffusinglight. in brief a sweet, a sugar stick,. even as saiththe poet of the like of him in these couplets: That night th' astrologer a scheme of planets drew, And lo! agraceful shape of youth appeared in view:Saturn had stained his locks with Saturninest jet, And spots ofnut brown musk on rosy side face blew:Mars tinctured either cheek with tinct of martial red. Sagittalshots from eyelids Sagittarius threw:Dowered him Mercury with bright mercurial wit. Bore off theBear what all man's evil glances grew:Amazed stood Astrophil to sight the marvel birth When loutedlow the Moon at full to buss the Earth.And of a truth Allah the Most High had robed him in the raimentof perfect grace and had purfled and fringed it with a cheek allbeauty and loveliness, even as the poet saith of such an one: By his eyelids shedding perfume and his fine slim waist I swear,By the shooting of his shafts barbed with sorcery passingrare.By the softness of his sides, and glances' lingeringlight, And brow of dazzling day tide ray and night withinhis hair.By his eyebrows which deny to who look upon them rest, Nowbidding now forbidding, ever dealing joy and care.By the rose that decks his cheek, and the myrtle of itsmoss, By jacinths bedded in his lips and pearl hissmile lays bare.By his graceful bending neck and the curving of his breast,Whose polished surface beareth those granados, lovely pair.By his heavy hips that quiver as he passeth in his pride, Or heresteth with that waist which is slim beyond compare.By the satin of his skin, by that fine unsullied sprite. By thebeauty that containeth all things bright and debonnair.By that ever open hand. by the candour of his tongue. By nobleblood and high degree whereof he's hope and heir.Musk from him borrows muskiness she loveth to exhale And allthe airs of ambergris through him perfume the air.The sun, methinks, the broad bright sun, before my love wouldpale And sans his splendour would appear a paring of hisnail.I glanced at him with one glance of eyes which caused me athousand sighs. and my heart was at once taken captive wise, so Iasked him, "O my lord and my love, tell me that whereof Iquestioned thee." and he answered, "Hearing is obeying! Know Ohandmaid of Allah, that this city was the capital of my fatherwho is the King thou sawest on the throne transfigured by Allah'swrath to a black stone, and the Queen thou foundest in the alcoveis my mother. They and all the people of the city were Magianswho fire adored in lieu of the Omnipotent Lord and werewont to swear by lowe and heat and shade and light and thespheres revolving day and night. My father had ne'er a son tillhe was blest with me near the last of his days. and he reared metill I grew up and prosperity anticipated me in all things. Nowit so fortuned that there was with us an old woman well strickenin years, a Moslemah who, inwardly believing in Allah and HisApostle, conformed outwardly with the religion of my people. andmy father placed thorough confidence in her for that he knew herto be trustworthy and virtuous. and he treated her with everincreasing kindness believing her to be of his own belief. Sowhen I was well nigh grown up my father committed me to hercharge saying: Take him and educate him and teach him the rulesof our faith. let him have the best in structions and cease notthy fostering care of him. So she took me and taught me thetenets of Al Islam with the divine ordinances of the Wuzuablution and the five daily prayers and she made me learn theKoran by rote, often repeating: Serve none save Allah Almighty!When I had mastered this much of knowledge she said to me: O myson, keep this matter concealed from thy sire and reveal naughtto him lest he slay thee. So I hid it from him and I abode onthis wise for a term of days when the old woman died, and thepeople of the city redoubled in their impiety andarrogance and the error of their ways. One day, while they wereas wont, behold, they heard a loud and terrible sound and a criercrying out with a voice like roaring thunder so every ear couldhear, far and near, "O folk of this city, leave ye your fireworshipping and adore Allah the All compassionate King!" At this,fear and terror fell upon the citizens and they crowded to myfather (he being King of the city) and asked him, "What is thisawesome voice we have heard, for it hath confounded us with theexcess of its terror?" and he answered, "Let not a voice frightyou nor shake your steadfast sprite nor turn you back from thefaith which is right." Their hearts inclined to his words andthey ceased not to worship the fire and they persisted inrebellion for a full year from the time they heard the firstvoice. and on the anniversary came a second cry, and a third atthe head of the third year, each year once Still they persistedin their malpractises till one day at break of dawn, judgment andthe wrath of Heaven descended upon them with all suddenness, andby the visitation of Allah all were metamorphosed into blackstones, they and their beasts and their cattle. and nonewas saved save myself who at the time was engaged in mydevotions. From that day to this I am in the case thou seest,constant in prayer and fasting and reading and reciting theKoran. but I am indeed grown weary by reason of my loneliness,having none to bear me company." Then said I to him (for in verysooth he had won my heart and was the lord of my life and soul),"O youth, wilt thou fare with me to Baghdad city and visit theOlema and men learned in the law and doctors of divinity and getthee increase of wisdom and understanding and theology? And knowthat she who standeth in thy presence will be thy handmaid,albeit she be head of her family and mistress over men andeunuchs and servants and slaves Indeed my life was no life beforeit fell in with thy youth. I have here a ship laden withmerchandise. and in very truth Destiny drove me to this city thatI might come to the knowledge of these matters, for it was fatedthat we should meet." And I ceased not to persuade him and speakhim fair and use every art till he consented. And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.When it was the Eighteenth Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that thelady ceased not persuading with soft speech the youth to departwith her till he consented and said "Yes." She slept that nightlying at his feet and hardly knowing where she was for excess ofjoy. As soon as the next morning dawned (she pursued, addressingthe Caliph), I arose and we entered the treasuries and tookthence whatever was light in weight and great in worth. then wewent down side by side from the castle to the city, where we weremet by the Captain and my sisters and slaves who had been seekingfor me. When they saw me they rejoiced and asked what had stayedme, and I told them all I had seen and related to them the storyof the young Prince and the transformation wherewith the citizenshad been justly visited. Hereat all marvelled, but when my twosisters (these two bitches, O Commander of the Faithful!) saw meby the side of my young lover they jaloused me on his account andwere wroth and plotted mischief against me. We awaited a fairwind and went on board rejoicing and ready to fly for joy byreason of the goods we had gotten, but my own greatest joyancewas in the youth. and we waited awhile till the wind blew fair forus and then we set sail and fared forth. Now as we sat talking,my sisters asked me, "And what wilt thou do with this handsomeyoung man?". and I answered, "I purpose to make him my husband!"Then I turned to him and said, "O my lord, I have that to proposeto thee wherein thou must not cross me. and this it is that, whenwe reach Baghdad, my native city, I offer thee my life as thyhandmaiden in holy matrimony, and thou shalt be to me baron and Iwill be femme to thee." He answered, "I hear and I obey!. thouart my lady and my mistress and whatso thou doest I will notgainsay." Then I turned to my sisters and said, "This is my gain.I content me with this youth and those who have gotten aught ofmy property let them keep it as their gain with my good will.""Thou sayest and doest well," answered the twain, but theyimagined mischief against me. We ceased not spooning before afair wind till we had exchanged the sea of peril for the seas ofsafety and, in a few days, we made Bassorah city, whose buildingsloomed clear before us as evening fell. But after we had retiredto rest and were sound alseep, my two sisters arose and took meup, bed and all, and threw me into the sea: they did the samewith the young Prince who, as he could not swim, sank and wasdrowned and Allah enrolled him in the noble army ofMartyrs. As for me would Heaven I had been drowned withhim, but Allah deemed that I should be of the saved. so when Iawoke and found myself in the sea and saw the ship making offlike a dash of lightning, He threw in my way a piece of timberwhich I bestrided, and the waves tossed me to and fro till theycast me upon an island coast, a high land and an uninhabited. Ilanded and walked about the island the rest of the night and,when morning dawned, I saw a rough track barely fit for child ofAdam to tread, leading to what proved a shallow ford connectingisland and mainland. As soon as the sun had risen I spread mygarments to dry in its rays. and ate of the fruits of the islandand drank of its waters. then I set out along the foot track andceased not walking till I reached the mainland. Now when thereremained between me and the city but a two hours' journey behold,a great serpent, the bigness of a date palm, came fleeing towardsme in all haste, gliding along now to the right then to the lefttill she was close upon me, whilst her tongue lolled ground wardsa span long and swept the dust as she went. She was pursued by aDragon who was not longer than two lances, and of slenderbuild about the bulk of a spear and, although her terror lent herspeed, and she kept wriggling from side to side, he overtook herand seized her by the tail, whereat her tears streamed down andher tongue was thrust out in her agony. I took pity on her and,picking up a stone and calling upon Allah for aid, threw it atthe Dragon's head with such force that he died then and there.and the serpent opening a pair of wings flew into the lift anddisappeared from before my eyes. I sat down marvelling over thatadventure, but I was weary and, drowsiness overcoming me, I sleptwhere I was for a while. When I awoke I found a jet black damselsitting at my feet shampooing them. and by her side stood twoblack bitches (my sisters, O Commander of the Faithful!). I wasashamed before her and, sitting up, asked her, "O mysister, who and what art thou?". and she answered, "How soon hastthou forgotten me! I am she for whom thou wroughtest a good deedand sowedest the seed of gratitude and slewest her foe. for I amthe serpent whom by Allah's aidance thou didst just now deliverfrom the Dragon. I am a Jinniyah and he was a Jinn who hated me,and none saved my life from him save thou. As soon as thoufreedest me from him I flew on the wind to the ship whence thysisters threw thee, and removed all that was therein to thyhouse. Then I ordered my attendant Marids to sink the ship and Itransformed thy two sisters into these black bitches. for I knowall that hath passed between them and thee. but as for the youth,of a truth he is drowned." So saying, she flew up with me and thebitches, and presently set us down on the terrace roof of myhouse, wherein I found ready stored the whole of what propertywas in my ship, nor was aught of it missing. "Now (continued theserpent that was), I swear by all engraver on the seal ring ofSolomon (with whom be peace!) unless thou deal to each ofthese bitches three hundred stripes every day I will come andimprison thee forever under the earth." I answered, "Hearkeningand obedience!". and away she flew. But before going she againcharged me saying, "I again swear by Him who made the two seasflow (and this be my second oath) if thou gainsay me Iwill come and transform thee like thy sisters." Since then I havenever failed, O Commander of the Faithful, to beat them with thatnumber of blows till their blood flows with my tears, I pityingthem the while, and well they wot that their being scourged is nofault of mine and they accept my excuses. And this is my tale andmy history! The Caliph marvelled at her adventures and thensigned to Ja'afar who said to the second lady, the Portress, "Andthou, how camest thou by the welts and wheels upon thy body?" Soshe began the