An old man named Takahama lived in a little house behind the cemeteryof the temple of Sozanji. He was extremely amiable and generally liked byhis neighbors, though most of them considered him to be a little mad. Hismadness, it would appear, entirely rested upon the fact that he had nevermarried or evinced desire for intimate companionship with women.One summer day he became very ill, so ill, in fact, that he sent forhis sister in law and her son. They both came and did all they could tobring comfort during his last hours. While they watched, Takahama fellasleep. but he had no sooner done so than a large white butterfly flewinto the room and rested on the old man's pillow. The young man tried todrive it away with a fan. but it came back three times, as if loath toleave the sufferer.At last Takahama's nephew chased it out into the garden, through thegate, and into the cemetery beyond, where it lingered over a woman's tomb,and then mysteriously disappeared. On examining the tomb the young manfound the name "Akiko" written upon it, together with a descriptionnarrating how Akiko died when she was eighteen. Though the tomb wascovered with moss and must have been erected fifty years previously, theboy saw that it was surrounded with flowers, and that the little watertank had been recently filled.When the young man returned to the house he found that Takahama hadpassed away, and he returned to his mother and told her what he had seenin the cemetery."Akiko?" murmured his mother. "When your uncle was young he wasbetrothed to Akiko. She died of consumption shortly before her weddingday. When Akiko left this world your uncle resolved never to marry, and tolive ever near her grave. For all these years he has remained faithful tohis vow, and kept in his heart all the sweet memories of his one and onlylove. Every day Takahama went to the cemetery, whether the air wasfragrant with summer breeze or thick with falling snow. Every day he wentto her grave and prayed for her happiness, swept the tomb and set flowersthere. When Takahama was dying, and he could no longer perform his lovingtask, Akiko came for him. That white butterfly was her sweet and lovingsoul."