Translated from the German of Hans Christian Andersen.There was once a pretty little fir tree in a wood. It was in a capitalposition, for it could get sun, and there was enough air, and all aroundgrew many tall companions, both pines and firs. It did not heed the warmsun and the fresh air, or notice the little peasant children who ranabout chattering when they came out to gather wild strawberries andraspberries. Often they found a whole basketful and strung strawberrieson a straw. they would sit down by the little fir tree and say, 'What apretty little one this is!' The tree did not like that at all.By the next year it had grown a whole ring taller, and the year afterthat another ring more, for you can always tell a fir tree's age fromits rings.'Oh! if I were only a great tree like the others!' sighed the littlefir tree, 'then I could stretch out my branches far and wide and lookout into the great world! The birds would build their nests in mybranches, and when the wind blew I would bow to it politely just likethe others!' It took no pleasure in the sunshine, nor in the birds, norin the rose coloured clouds that sailed over it at dawn and at sunset.Then the winter came, and the snow lay white and sparkling all around,and a hare would come and spring right over the little fir tree, whichannoyed it very much. But when two more winters had passed the fir treewas so tall that the hare had to run round it. 'Ah! to grow and grow,and become great and old! that is the only pleasure in life,' thoughtthe tree. In the autumn the woodcutters used to come and hew some of thetallest trees. this happened every year, and the young fir tree wouldshiver as the magnificent trees fell crashing and crackling to theground, their branches hewn off, and the great trunks left bare, so thatthey were almost unrecognisable. But then they were laid on waggonsand dragged out of the wood by horses. 'Where are they going? What willhappen to them?'In spring, when the swallows and storks came, the fir tree asked them,'Do you know where they were taken? Have you met them?'The swallows knew nothing of them, but the stork nodded his headthoughtfully, saying, 'I think I know. I met many new ships as I flewfrom Egypt. there were splendid masts on the ships. I'll wager thosewere they! They had the scent of fir trees. Ah! those are grand, grand!''Oh! if I were only big enough to sail away over the sea too! What sortof thing is the sea? what does it look like?''Oh! it would take much too long to tell you all that,' said the stork,and off he went.'Rejoice in your youth,' said the sunbeams, 'rejoice in the sweetgrowing time, in the young life within you.'And the wind kissed it and the dew wept tears over it, but the fir treedid not understand.Towards Christmas time quite little trees were cut down, some not as bigas the young fir tree, or just the same age, and now it had no peace orrest for longing to be away. These little trees, which were chosen fortheir beauty, kept all their branches. they were put in carts and drawnout of the wood by horses.'Whither are those going?' asked the fir tree. 'they are no bigger thanI, and one there was much smaller even! Why do they keep their branches?Where are they taken to?''We know! we know!' twittered the sparrows. 'Down there in the city wehave peeped in at the windows, we know where they go! They attain to thegreatest splendour and magnificence you can imagine! We have looked inat the windows and seen them planted in the middle of the warm room andadorned with the most beautiful things golden apples, sweet meats, toysand hundreds of candles.''And then?' asked the fir tree, trembling in every limb with eagerness,'and then? what happens then?''Oh, we haven't seen anything more than that. That was simplymatchless!''Am I too destined to the same brilliant career?' wondered the fir treeexcitedly. 'That is even better than sailing over the sea! I am sickwith longing. If it were only Christmas! Now I am tall and grown up likethose which were taken away last year. Ah, if I were only in the cart!If I were only in the warm room with all the splendour and magnificence!And then? Then comes something better, something still more beautiful,else why should they dress us up? There must be something greater,something grander to come but what? Oh! I am pining away! I reallydon't know what's the matter with me!''Rejoice in us,' said the air and sunshine, 'rejoice in your fresh youthin the free air!'But it took no notice, and just grew and grew. there it stood fresh andgreen in winter and summer, and all who saw it said, 'What a beautifultree!' And at Christmas time it was the first to be cut down. The axewent deep into the pith. the tree fell to the ground with a groan. itfelt bruised and faint. It could not think of happiness, it was sad atleaving its home, the spot where it had sprung up. it knew, too, that itwould never see again its dear old companions, or the little shrubsand flowers, perhaps not even the birds. Altogether the parting was notpleasant.When the tree came to itself again it was packed in a yard with othertrees, and a man was saying, 'This is a splendid one, we shall only wantthis.'Then came two footmen in livery and carried the fir tree to a large andbeautiful room. There were pictures hanging on the walls, and near theDutch stove stood great Chinese vases with lions on their lids. therewere armchairs, silk covered sofas, big tables laden with picture booksand toys, worth hundreds of pounds at least, so the children said. Thefir tree was placed in a great tub filled with sand, but no one couldsee that it was a tub, for it was all hung with greenery and stood on agay carpet. How the tree trembled! What was coming now? On itsbranches they hung little nets cut out of coloured paper, each full ofsugarplums. gilt apples and nuts hung down as if they were growing, overa hundred red, blue, and white tapers were fastened among the branches.Dolls as life like as human beings the fir tree had never seen anybefore were suspended among the green, and right up at the top was fixeda gold tinsel star. it was gorgeous, quite unusually gorgeous!'To night,' they all said, 'to night it will be lighted!''Ah!' thought the tree, 'if it were only evening! Then the tapers wouldsoon be lighted. What will happen then? I wonder whether the trees willcome from the wood to see me, or if the sparrows will fly against thewindow panes? Am I to stand here decked out thus through winter andsummer?'It was not a bad guess, but the fir tree had real bark ache from sheerlonging, and bark ache in trees is just as bad as head ache in humanbeings.Now the tapers were lighted. What a glitter! What splendour! The treequivered in all its branches so much, that one of the candles caughtthe green, and singed it. 'Take care!' cried the young ladies, and theyextinguished it.Now the tree did not even dare to quiver. It was really terrible! It wasso afraid of losing any of its ornaments, and it was quite bewildered byall the radiance.And then the folding doors were opened, and a crowd of children rushedin, as though they wanted to knock down the whole tree, whilst the olderpeople followed soberly. The children stood quite silent, but only fora moment, and then they shouted again, and danced round the tree, andsnatched off one present after another.'What are they doing?' thought the tree. 'What is going to happen?' Andthe tapers burnt low on the branches, and were put out one by one, andthen the children were given permission to plunder the tree. They rushedat it so that all its boughs creaked. if it had not been fastened by thegold star at the top to the ceiling, it would have been overthrown.The children danced about with their splendid toys, and no one looked atthe tree, except the old nurse, who came and peeped amongst the boughs,just to see if a fig or an apple had been forgotten.'A story! a story!' cried the children, and dragged a little stoutman to the tree. he sat down beneath it, saying, 'Here we are in thegreenwood, and the tree will be delighted to listen! But I am only goingto tell one story. Shall it be Henny Penny or Humpty Dumpty who felldownstairs, and yet gained great honour and married a princess?''Henny Penny!' cried some. 'Humpty Dumpty!' cried others. there was aperfect babel of voices! Only the fir tree kept silent, and thought, 'AmI not to be in it? Am I to have nothing to do with it?'But it had already been in it, and played out its part. And the man toldthem about Humpty Dumpty who fell downstairs and married a princess. Thechildren clapped their hands and cried, 'Another! another!' They wantedthe story of Henny Penny also, but they only got Humpty Dumpty. Thefir tree stood quite astonished and thoughtful. the birds in the woodhad never related anything like that. 'Humpty Dumpty fell downstairs andyet married a princess! yes, that is the way of the world!' thought thetree, and was sure it must be true, because such a nice man had toldthe story. 'Well, who knows? Perhaps I shall fall downstairs and marry aprincess.' And it rejoiced to think that next day it would be decked outagain with candles, toys, glittering ornaments, and fruits. 'To morrowI shall quiver again with excitement. I shall enjoy to the full all mysplendour. To morrow I shall hear Humpty Dumpty again, and perhaps HennyPenny too.' And the tree stood silent and lost in thought all throughthe night.Next morning the servants came in. 'Now the dressing up will beginagain,' thought the tree. But they dragged it out of the room, and upthe stairs to the lumber room, and put it in a dark corner, where no rayof light could penetrate. 'What does this mean?' thought the tree. 'Whatam I to do here? What is there for me to hear?' And it leant against thewall, and thought and thought. And there was time enough for that, fordays and nights went by, and no one came. at last when some one didcome, it was only to put some great boxes into the corner. Now the treewas quite covered. it seemed as if it had been quite forgotten.'Now it is winter out doors,' thought the fir tree. 'The ground is hardand covered with snow, they can't plant me yet, and that is why I amstaying here under cover till the spring comes. How thoughtful they are!Only I wish it were not so terribly dark and lonely here. not evena little hare! It was so nice out in the wood, when the snow lay allaround, and the hare leapt past me. yes, even when he leapt over me: butI didn't like it then. It's so dreadfully lonely up here.''Squeak, squeak!' said a little mouse, stealing out, followed by asecond. They sniffed at the fir tree, and then crept between its boughs.'It's frightfully cold,' said the little mice. 'How nice it is to behere! Don't you think so too, you old fir tree?''I'm not at all old,' said the tree. 'there are many much older than Iam.''Where do you come from?' asked the mice, 'and what do you know?' Theywere extremely inquisitive. 'Do tell us about the most beautifulplace in the world. Is that where you come from? Have you been in thestoreroom, where cheeses lie on the shelves, and hams hang from theceiling, where one dances on tallow candles, and where one goes in thinand comes out fat?''I know nothing about that,' said the tree. 'But I know the wood, wherethe sun shines, and the birds sing.' And then it told them all aboutits young days, and the little mice had never heard anything like thatbefore, and they listened with all their ears, and said: 'Oh, how muchyou have seen! How lucky you have been!''I?' said the fir tree, and then it thought over what it had told them.'Yes, on the whole those were very happy times.' But then it went on totell them about Christmas Eve, when it had been adorned with sweet meatsand tapers.'Oh!' said the little mice, 'how lucky you have been, you old fir tree!''I'm not at all old' said the tree. 'I only came from the wood thiswinter. I am only a little backward, perhaps, in my growth.''How beautifully you tell stories!' said the little mice. And nextevening they came with four others, who wanted to hear the tree's story,and it told still more, for it remembered everything so clearly andthought: 'Those were happy times! But they may come again. Humpty dumptyfell downstairs, and yet he married a princess. perhaps I shall alsomarry a princess!' And then it thought of a pretty little birch treethat grew out in the wood, and seemed to the fir tree a real princess,and a very beautiful one too.'Who is Humpty Dumpty?' asked the little mice.And then the tree told the whole story. it could remember every singleword, and the little mice were ready to leap on to the topmost branchout of sheer joy! Next night many more mice came, and on Sunday eventwo rats. but they did not care about the story, and that troubled thelittle mice, for now they thought less of it too.'Is that the only story you know?' asked the rats.'The only one,' answered the tree. 'I heard that on my happiest evening,but I did not realise then how happy I was.''That's a very poor story. Don't you know one about bacon or tallowcandles? a storeroom story?''No,' said the tree.'Then we are much obliged to you,' said the rats, and they went back totheir friends.At last the little mice went off also, and the tree said, sighing:'Really it was very pleasant when the lively little mice sat round andlistened whilst I told them stories. But now that's over too. But now Iwill think of the time when I shall be brought out again, to keep up myspirits.'But when did that happen? Well, it was one morning when they came totidy up the lumber room. they threw it really rather roughly on thefloor, but a servant dragged it off at once downstairs, where there wasdaylight once more.'Now life begins again!' thought the tree. It felt the fresh air, thefirst rays of the sun, and there it was out in the yard! Everythingpassed so quickly. the tree quite forgot to notice itself, there was somuch to look at all around. The yard opened on a garden full of flowers.the roses were so fresh and sweet, hanging over a little trellis,the lime trees were in blossom, and the swallows flew about, saying:'Quirre virre vil, my husband has come home.' but it was not thefir tree they meant.'Now I shall live,' thought the tree joyfully, stretching out itsbranches wide. but, alas! they were all withered and yellow. and it waslying in a corner among weeds and nettles. The golden star was still onits highest bough, and it glittered in the bright sunlight. In the yardsome of the merry children were playing, who had danced so gaily roundthe tree at Christmas. One of the little ones ran up, and tore off thegold star.'Look what was left on the ugly old fir tree!' he cried, and stamped onthe boughs so that they cracked under his feet.And the tree looked at all the splendour and freshness of the flowers inthe garden, and then looked at itself, and wished that it had been leftlying in the dark corner of the lumber room. it thought of its freshyouth in the wood, of the merry Christmas Eve, and of the little micewho had listened so happily to the story of Humpty Dumpty.'Too late! Too late!' thought the old tree. 'If only I had enjoyedmyself whilst I could. Now all is over and gone.'And a servant came and cut the tree into small pieces, there was quitea bundle of them. they flickered brightly under the great copper inthe brew house. the tree sighed deeply, and each sigh was like apistol shot. so the children who were playing there ran up, and sat infront of the fire, gazing at it, and crying, 'Piff! puff! bang!' Butfor each report, which was really a sigh, the tree was thinking of asummer's day in the wood, or of a winter's night out there, when thestars were shining. it thought of Christmas Eve, and of Humpty Dumpty,which was the only story it had heard, or could tell, and then the treehad burnt away.The children played on in the garden, and the youngest had the goldenstar on his breast, which the tree had worn on the happiest evening ofits life. and now that was past and the tree had passed away and thestory too, all ended and done with.And that's the way with all stories!Here our Danish author ends. This is what people call sentiment, and Ihope you enjoy it!