Know, O my lady, that the cause of my beard being shorn and myeye being out torn was as follows. My father was a King and hehad a brother who was a King over another city. and it came topass that I and my cousin, the son of my paternal uncle, wereboth born on one and the same day. And years and days rolled on.and, as we grew up, I used to visit my uncle every now and thenand to spend a certain number of months with him. Now my cousinand I were sworn friends. for he ever entreated me with exceedingkindness. he killed for me the fattest sheep and strained thebest of his wines, and we enjoyed long conversing and carousing.One day when the wine had gotten the better of us, the son of myuncle said to me, "O my cousin, I have a great service to ask ofthee. and I desire that thou stay me not in whatso I desire todo!" And I replied, "With joy and goodly will." Then he made meswear the most binding oaths and left me. but after a littlewhile he returned leading a lady veiled and richly apparelledwith ornaments worth a large sum of money. Presently he turned tome (the woman being still behind him) and said, "Take this ladywith thee and go before me to such a burial ground" (describingit, so that I knew the place), "and enter with her into such asepulchre and there await my coming." The oaths I sworeto him made me keep silence and suffered me not to oppose him. soI led the woman to the cemetery and both I and she took our seatsin the sepulchre. and hardly had we sat down when in came myuncle's son, with a bowl of water, a bag of mortar and an adzesomewhat like a hoe. He went straight to the tomb in the midst ofthe sepulchre and, breaking it open with the adze set the stoneson one side. then he fell to digging into the earth of the tombtill he came upon a large iron plate, the size of a wicket door.and on raising it there appeared below it a staircase vaulted andwinding. Then he turned to the lady and said to her, "Come nowand take thy final choice!" She at once went down by thestaircase and disappeared. then quoth he to me, "O son of myuncle, by way of completing thy kindness, when I shall havedescended into this place, restore the trap door to where it was,and heap back the earth upon it as it lay before. and then of thygoodness mix this unslaked lime which is in the bag with thiswater which is in the bowl and, after building up the stones,plaster the outside so that none looking upon it shall say: Thisis a new opening in an old tomb. For a whole year have I workedat this place whereof none knoweth but Allah, and this is theneed I have of thee." presently adding, "May Allah never bereavethy friends of thee nor make them desolate by thine absence, Oson of my uncle, O my dear cousin!" And he went down the stairsand disappeared for ever. When he was lost to sight I replacedthe iron plate and did all his bidding till the tomb became as itwas before and I worked almost unconsciously for my head washeated with wine. Returning to the palace of my uncle, I was toldthat he had gone forth a sporting and hunting. so I slept thatnight without seeing him. and, when the morning dawned, Iremembered the scenes of the past evening and what happenedbetween me and my cousin. I repented of having obeyed him whenpenitence was of no avail, I still thought, however, that it wasa dream. So I fell to asking for the son of my uncle. but therewas none to answer me concerning him. and I went out to thegrave yard and the sepulchres, and sought for the tomb underwhich he was, but could not find it. and I ceased not wanderingabout from sepulchre to sepulchre, and tomb to tomb, all withoutsuccess, till night set in. So I returned to the city, yet Icould neither eat nor drink. my thoughts being engrossed with mycousin, for that I knew not what was become of him. and I grievedwith exceeding grief and passed another sorrowful night, watchinguntil the morning. Then went I a second time to the cemetery,pondering over what the son of mine uncle had done. and, sorelyrepenting my hearkening to him, went round among all the tombs,but could not find the tomb I sought. I mourned over the past,and remained in my mourning seven days, seeking the place andever missing the path. Then my torture of scruples grewupon me till I well nigh went mad, and I found no way to dispelmy grief save travel and return to my father. So I set out andjourneyed homeward. but as I was entering my father's capital acrowd of rioters sprang upon me and pinioned me. Iwondered thereat with all wonderment, seeing that I was the sonof the Sultan, and these men were my father's subjects andamongst them were some of my own slaves. A great fear fell uponme, and I said to my soul, "Would heaven I knew what hathhappened to my father!" I questioned those that bound me of thecause of their doing, but they returned me no answer. However,after a while one of them said to me (and he had been a hiredservant of our house), "Fortune hath been false to thy father.his troops betrayed him and the Wazir who slew him now reignethin his stead and we lay in wait to seize thee by the bidding ofhim." I was well nigh distraught and felt ready to faint onhearing of my father's death. when they carried me off and placedme in presence of the usurper. Now between me and him there wasan olden grudge, the cause of which was this. I was fond ofshooting with the stone bow, and it befel one day as Iwas standing on the terrace roof of the palace, that a birdlighted on the top of the Wazir's house when he happened to bethere. I shot at the bird and missed the mark. but I hit theWazir's eye and knocked it out as fate and fortune decreed. Evenso saith the poet: We tread the path where Fate hath led The path Fate writ wefain must tread:And man in one land doomed to die Death no where else shall dohim dead.And on like wise saith another: Let Fortune have her wanton way Take heart and all her wordsobey:Nor joy nor mourn at anything For all things pass and no thingsstay.Now when I knocked out the Wazir's eye he could not say a singleword, for that my father was King of the city. but he hated meeverafter and dire was the grudge thus caused between us twain.So when I was set before him hand bound and pinioned, hestraightway gave orders for me to be beheaded. I asked, "For whatcrime wilt thou put me to death?". whereupon he answered, "Whatcrime is greater than this?" pointing the while to the placewhere his eye had been Quoth I, "This I did by accident not ofmalice prepense." and quoth he, "If thou didst it by accident, Iwill do the like by thee with intention.'' Then cried he,"Bring him forward," and they brought me up to him, when hethrust his finger into my left eye and gouged it out. whereupon Ibecame one eyed as ye see me. Then he bade bind me hand and foot,and put me into a chest and said to the sworder, "Take charge ofthis fellow, and go off with him to the waste lands about thecity. then draw thy scymitar and slay him, and leave him to feedthe beasts and birds." So the headsman fared forth with me andwhen he was in the midst of the desert, he took me out of thechest (and I with both hands pinioned and both feet fettered) andwas about to bandage my eyes before striking off my head. But Iwept with exceeding weeping until I made him weep with me and,looking at him I began to recite these couplets: "I deemed you coat o' mail that should withstand The foeman'sshafts, and you proved foeman's brandI hoped your aidance in mine every chance Though fail my leftto aid my dexter hand:Aloof you stand and hear the railer's gibe While rain theirshafts on me the giber band:But an ye will not guard me from my foes Stand clear, andsuccour neither these nor those!"And I also quoted: "I deemed my brethren mail of strongest steel And so they were from foes I to fend my dart!I deemed their arrows surest of their aim. And so they were when aiming at my heart!"When the headsman heard my lines (he had been sworder to my sireand he owed me a debt of gratitude) he cried, "O my lord, whatcan I do, being but a slave under orders?" presently adding, "Flyfor thy life and nevermore return to this land, or they will slaythee and slay me with thee, even as the poet said: Take thy life and fly whenas evils threat. Let the ruined housetell its owner's fate:New land for the old thou shalt seek and find But to find newlife thou must not await.Strange that men should sit in the stead of shame, When Allah'sworld is so wide and great!And trust not other, in matters grave Life itself must act fora life beset:Ne'er would prowl the lion with maned neck, Did he reckon onaid or of others reck."Hardly believing in my escape, I kissed his hand and thought theloss of my eye a light matter in consideration of my escapingfrom being slain. I arrived at my uncle's capital. and, going into him, told him of what had befallen my father and myself.whereat he wept with sore weeping and said, "Verily thou addestgrief to my grief, and woe to my woe. for thy cousin hath beenmissing these many days. I wot not what hath happened to him, andnone can give me news of him." And he wept till he fainted. Isorrowed and condoled with him. and he would have applied certainmedicaments to my eye, but he saw that it was become as a walnutwith the shell empty. Then said he, "O my son, better to lose eyeand keep life!" After that I could no longer remain silent aboutmy cousin, who was his only son and one dearly loved, so I toldhim all that had happened. He rejoiced with extreme joyance tohear news of his son and said, "Come now and show me the tomb."but I replied, "By Allah, O my uncle, I know not its place,though I sought it carefully full many times, yet could not findthe site." However, I and my uncle went to the grave yard andlooked right and left, till at last I recognised the tomb and weboth rejoiced with exceeding joy. We entered the sepulchre andloosened the earth about the grave. then, up raising the trapdoor, descended some fifty steps till we came to the foot of thestaircase when lo! we were stopped by a blinding smoke. Thereuponsaid my uncle that saying whose sayer shall never come to shame,"There is no Majesty and there is no Might, save in Allah, theGlorious, the Great!" and we advanced till we suddenly came upona saloon, whose floor was strewed with flour and grain andprovisions and all manner necessaries. and in the midst of itstood a canopy sheltering a couch. Thereupon my uncle went up tothe couch and inspecting it found his son and the lady who hadgone down with him into the tomb, lying in each other's embrace.but the twain had become black as charred wood. it was as if theyhad been cast into a pit of fire. When my uncle saw thisspectacle, he spat in his son's face and said, "Thou hast thydeserts, O thou hog! this is thy judgment in thetransitory world, and yet remaineth the judgment in the world tocome, a durer and a more enduring "  And Shahrazad perceived thedawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.When it was the Twelfth Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that theKalandar thus went on with his story before the lady and theCaliph and Ja'afar: My uncle struck his son with hisslipper as he lay there a black heap of coal. I marvelledat his hardness of heart, and grieving for my cousin and thelady, said, "By Allah, O my uncle, calm thy wrath: dost thou notsee that all my thoughts are occupied with this misfortune, andhow sorrowful I am for what hath befallen thy son, and howhorrible it is that naught of him remaineth but a black heap ofcharcoal? And is not that enough, but thou must smite him withthy slipper?" Answered he,"O son of my brother, this youth fromhis boyhood was madly in love with his own sister. andoften and often I forbade him from her, saying to myself: Theyare but little ones. However, when they grew up sin befel betweenthem. and, although I could hardly believe it, I confined him andchided him and threatened him with the severest threats. and theeunuchs and servants said to him: Beware of so foul a thingwhich none before thee ever did, and which none after thee willever do. and have a care lest thou be dishonoured and disgracedamong the Kings of the day, even to the end of time. And Iadded: Such a report as this will be spread abroad by caravans,and take heed not to give them cause to talk or I will assuredlycurse thee and do thee to death. After that I lodged them apartand shut her up. but the accursed girl loved him with passionatelove, for Satan had got the mastery of her as well as of him andmade their foul sin seem fair in their sight. Now when my son sawthat I separated them, he secretly built this souterrain andfurnished it and transported to it victuals, even as thou seest.and, when I had gone out a sporting, came here with his sisterand hid from me. Then His righteous judgment fell upon the twainand consumed them with fire from Heaven. and verily the lastjudgment will deal them durer pains and more enduring!" Then hewept and I wept with him. and he looked at me and said, "Thou artmy son in his stead." And I bethought me awhile of the world andof its chances, how the Wazir had slain my father and had takenhis place and had put out my eye. and how my cousin had come tohis death by the strangest chance: and I wept again and my unclewept with me. Then we mounted the steps and let down the ironplate and heaped up the earth over it. and, after restoring thetomb to its former condition, we returned to the palace. Buthardly had we sat down ere we heard the tomtoming of the kettledrum and tantara of trumpets and clash of cymbals. and therattling of war men's lances. and the clamours of assailants andthe clanking of bits and the neighing of steeds. while the worldwas canopied with dense dust and sand clouds raised by thehorses' hoofs. We were amazed at sight and sound, knowingnot what could be the matter. so we asked and were told us thatthe Wazir who usurped my father's kingdom had marched his men.and that after levying his soldiery and taking a host of wildArabs into service, he had come down upon us with armieslike the sands of the sea. their number none could tell andagainst them none could prevail. They attacked the city unawares.and the citizens, being powerless to oppose them, surrendered theplace: my uncle was slain and I made for the suburbs saying tomyself, "If thou fall into this villain's hands he will assuredlykill thee." On this wise all my troubles were renewed. and Ipondered all that had betided my father and my uncle and I knewnot what to do. for if the city people or my father's troops hadrecognised me they would have done their best to win favour bydestroying me. and I could think of no way to escape save byshaving off my beard and my eyebrows. So I shore them off and,changing my fine clothes for a Kalandar's rags, I fared forthfrom my uncle's capital and made for this city. hoping thatperadventure some one would assist me to the presence of thePrince of the Faithful, and the Caliph who is theViceregent of Allah upon earth. Thus have I come hither that Imight tell him my tale and lay my case before him. I arrived herethis very night, and was standing in doubt whither I should go,when suddenly I saw this second Kalandar. so I salam'd to himsaying "I am a stranger!" and he answered: "I too am astranger!" And as we were conversing behold, up came ourcompanion, this third Kalandar, and saluted us saying: "I am astranger!" And we answered: "We too be strangers!" Then we threewalked on and together till darkness overtook us and Destinycrave us to your house. Such, then, is the cause of the shavingof my beard and mustachios and eyebrows. and the manner of mylosing my right eye. They marvelled much at this tale and theCaliph said to Ja'afar, "By Allah, I have not seen nor have Iheard the like of what hath happened to this Kalandar!" Quoth thelady of the house, "Rub thy head and wend thy ways." but hereplied, "I will not go, till I hear the history of the twoothers." Thereupon the second Kalandar came forward. and, kissingthe ground, began to tell