One fine day in harvest it was indeed Lady day in harvest, thateverybody knows to be one of the greatest holidays in the year TomFitzpatrick was taking a ramble through the ground, and went along thesunny side of a hedge. when all of a sudden he heard a clacking sort ofnoise a little before him in the hedge. "Dear me," said Tom, "but isn'tit surprising to hear the stonechatters singing so late in the season?"So Tom stole on, going on the tops of his toes to try if he could get asight of what was making the noise, to see if he was right in hisguess. The noise stopped. but as Tom looked sharply through the bushes,what should he see in a nook of the hedge but a brown pitcher, thatmight hold about a gallon and a half of liquor. and by and by a littlewee teeny tiny bit of an old man, with a little _motty_ of a cocked hatstuck upon the top of his head, a deeshy daushy leather apron hangingbefore him, pulled out a little wooden stool, and stood up upon it, anddipped a little piggin into the pitcher, and took out the full of it,and put it beside the stool, and then sat down under the pitcher, andbegan to work at putting a heel piece on a bit of a brogue just fit forhimself. "Well, by the powers," said Tom to himself, "I often heardtell of the Lepracauns, and, to tell God's truth, I never rightlybelieved in them but here's one of them in real earnest. If I goknowingly to work, I'm a made man. They say a body must never taketheir eyes off them, or they'll escape."Tom now stole on a little further, with his eye fixed on the little manjust as a cat does with a mouse. So when he got up quite close to him,"God bless your work, neighbour," said Tom.The little man raised up his head, and "Thank you kindly," said he."I wonder you'd be working on the holiday!" said Tom."That's my own business, not yours," was the reply."Well, may be you'd be civil enough to tell _us_ what you've got in thepitcher there?" said Tom."That I will, with pleasure," said he. "it's good beer.""Beer!" said Tom. "Thunder and fire! where did you get it?""Where did I get it, is it? Why, I made it. And what do you think Imade it of?""Devil a one of me knows," said Tom. "but of malt, I suppose, whatelse?""There you're out. I made it of heath.""Of heath!" said Tom, bursting out laughing. "sure you don't think meto be such a fool as to believe that?""Do as you please," said he, "but what I tell you is the truth. Did younever hear tell of the Danes?""Well, what about _them_?" said Tom."Why, all the about them there is, is that when they were here theytaught us to make beer out of the heath, and the secret's in my familyever since.""Will you give a body a taste of your beer?" said Tom."I'll tell you what it is, young man, it would be fitter for you to belooking after your father's property than to be bothering decent quietpeople with your foolish questions. There now, while you're idling awayyour time here, there's the cows have broke into the oats, and areknocking the corn all about."Tom was taken so by surprise with this that he was just on the verypoint of turning round when he recollected himself. so, afraid that thelike might happen again, he made a grab at the Lepracaun, and caughthim up in his hand. but in his hurry he overset the pitcher, and spiltall the beer, so that he could not get a taste of it to tell what sortit was. He then swore that he would kill him if he did not show himwhere his money was. Tom looked so wicked and so bloody minded that thelittle man was quite frightened. so says he, "Come along with me acouple of fields off, and I'll show you a crock of gold."So they went, and Tom held the Lepracaun fast in his hand, and nevertook his eyes from off him, though they had to cross hedges andditches, and a crooked bit of bog, till at last they came to a greatfield all full of boliauns, and the Lepracaun pointed to a big boliaun,and says he, "Dig under that boliaun, and you'll get the great crockall full of guineas."Tom in his hurry had never thought of bringing a spade with him, so hemade up his mind to run home and fetch one. and that he might know theplace again he took off one of his red garters, and tied it round theboliaun.Then he said to the Lepracaun, "Swear ye'll not take that garter awayfrom that boliaun." And the Lepracaun swore right away not to touch it."I suppose," said the Lepracaun, very civilly, "you have no furtheroccasion for me?""No," says Tom. "you may go away now, if you please, and God speed you,and may good luck attend you wherever you go.""Well, good bye to you, Tom Fitzpatrick," said the Lepracaun. "and muchgood may it do you when you get it."So Tom ran for dear life, till he came home and got a spade, and thenaway with him, as hard as he could go, back to the field of boliauns.but when he got there, lo and behold! not a boliaun in the field buthad a red garter, the very model of his own, tied about it. and as todigging up the whole field, that was all nonsense, for there were morethan forty good Irish acres in it. So Tom came home again with hisspade on his shoulder, a little cooler than he went, and many's thehearty curse he gave the Lepracaun every time he thought of the neatturn he had served him.THE HORNED WOMENA rich woman sat up late one night carding and preparing wool, whileall the family and servants were asleep. Suddenly a knock was given atthe door, and a voice called, "Open! open!""Who is there?" said the woman of the house."I am the Witch of one Horn," was answered.The mistress, supposing that one of her neighbours had called andrequired assistance, opened the door, and a woman entered, having inher hand a pair of wool carders, and bearing a horn on her forehead, asif growing there. She sat down by the fire in silence, and began tocard the wool with violent haste. Suddenly she paused, and said aloud:"Where are the women? they delay too long."Then a second knock came to the door, and a voice called as before,"Open! open!"The mistress felt herself obliged to rise and open to the call, andimmediately a second witch entered, having two horns on her forehead,and in her hand a wheel for spinning wool."Give me place," she said. "I am the Witch of the two Horns," and shebegan to spin as quick as lightning.And so the knocks went on, and the call was heard, and the witchesentered, until at last twelve women sat round the fire the first withone horn, the last with twelve horns.And they carded the thread, and turned their spinning wheels, and woundand wove, all singing together an ancient rhyme, but no word did theyspeak to the mistress of the house. Strange to hear, and frightful tolook upon, were these twelve women, with their horns and their wheels.and the mistress felt near to death, and she tried to rise that shemight call for help, but she could not move, nor could she utter a wordor a cry, for the spell of the witches was upon her.Then one of them called to her in Irish, and said, "Rise, woman, andmake us a cake."Then the mistress searched for a vessel to bring water from the wellthat she might mix the meal and make the cake, but she could find none.And they said to her, "Take a sieve and bring water in it."And she took the sieve and went to the well. but the water poured fromit, and she could fetch none for the cake, and she sat down by the welland wept.Then a voice came by her and said, "Take yellow clay and moss, and bindthem together, and plaster the sieve so that it will hold."This she did, and the sieve held the water for the cake. and the voicesaid again:"Return, and when thou comest to the north angle of the house, cryaloud three times and say, 'The mountain of the Fenian women and thesky over it is all on fire.'"And she did so.When the witches inside heard the call, a great and terrible cry brokefrom their lips, and they rushed forth with wild lamentations andshrieks, and fled away to Slievenamon, where was their chief abode. Butthe Spirit of the Well bade the mistress of the house to enter andprepare her home against the enchantments of the witches if theyreturned again.And first, to break their spells, she sprinkled the water in which shehad washed her child's feet, the feet water, outside the door on thethreshold. secondly, she took the cake which in her absence the witcheshad made of meal mixed with the blood drawn from the sleeping family,and she broke the cake in bits, and placed a bit in the mouth of eachsleeper, and they were restored. and she took the cloth they had woven,and placed it half in and half out of the chest with the padlock. andlastly, she secured the door with a great crossbeam fastened in thejambs, so that the witches could not enter, and having done thesethings she waited.Not long were the witches in coming back, and they raged and called forvengeance."Open! open!" they screamed. "open, feet water!""I cannot," said the feet water. "I am scattered on the ground, and mypath is down to the Lough.""Open, open, wood and trees and beam!" they cried to the door."I cannot," said the door, "for the beam is fixed in the jambs and Ihave no power to move.""Open, open, cake that we have made and mingled with blood!" they criedagain."I cannot," said the cake, "for I am broken and bruised, and my bloodis on the lips of the sleeping children."Then the witches rushed through the air with great cries, and fled backto Slievenamon, uttering strange curses on the Spirit of the Well, whohad wished their ruin. but the woman and the house were left in peace,and a mantle dropped by one of the witches in her flight was kept hungup by the mistress in memory of that night. and this mantle was kept bythe same family from generation to generation for five hundred yearsafter.CONALL YELLOWCLAWConall Yellowclaw was a sturdy tenant in Erin: he had three sons. Therewas at that time a king over every fifth of Erin. It fell out for thechildren of the king that was near Conall, that they themselves and thechildren of Conall came to blows. The children of Conall got the upperhand, and they killed the king's big son. The king sent a message forConall, and he said to him "Oh, Conall! what made your sons go tospring on my sons till my big son was killed by your children? but Isee that though I follow you revengefully, I shall not be much betterfor it, and I will now set a thing before you, and if you will do it, Iwill not follow you with revenge. If you and your sons will get me thebrown horse of the king of Lochlann, you shall get the souls of yoursons.""Why," said Conall, "should not I do the pleasure of the king, thoughthere should be no souls of my sons in dread at all. Hard is the matteryou require of me, but I will lose my own life, and the life of mysons, or else I will do the pleasure of the king."After these words Conall left the king, and he went home: when he gothome he was under much trouble and perplexity. When he went to lie downhe told his wife the thing the king had set before him. His wife tookmuch sorrow that he was obliged to part from herself, while she knewnot if she should see him more."Oh, Conall," said she, "why didst not thou let the king do his ownpleasure to thy sons, rather than be going now, while I know not ifever I shall see thee more?"When he rose on the morrow, he set himself and his three sons in order,and they took their journey towards Lochlann, and they made no stop buttore through ocean till they reached it. When they reached Lochlannthey did not know what they should do. Said the old man to his sons,"Stop ye, and we will seek out the house of the king's miller."When they went into the house of the king's miller, the man asked themto stop there for the night. Conall told the miller that his ownchildren and the children of his king had fallen out, and that hischildren had killed the king's son, and there was nothing that wouldplease the king but that he should get the brown horse of the king ofLochlann."If you will do me a kindness, and will put me in a way to get him, forcertain I will pay ye for it.""The thing is silly that you are come to seek," said the miller. "forthe king has laid his mind on him so greatly that you will not get himin any way unless you steal him. but if you can make out a way, I willkeep it secret.""This is what I am thinking," said Conall, "since you are working everyday for the king, you and your gillies could put myself and my sonsinto five sacks of bran.""The plan that has come into your head is not bad," said the miller.The miller spoke to his gillies, and he said to them to do this, andthey put them in five sacks. The king's gillies came to seek the bran,and they took the five sacks with them, and they emptied them beforethe horses. The servants locked the door, and they went away.When they rose to lay hand on the brown horse, said Conall, "You shallnot do that. It is hard to get out of this. let us make for ourselvesfive hiding holes, so that if they hear us we may go and hide." Theymade the holes, then they laid hands on the horse. The horse was prettywell unbroken, and he set to making a terrible noise through thestable. The king heard the noise. "It must be my brown horse," said heto his gillies. "find out what is wrong with him."The servants went out, and when Conall and his sons saw them comingthey went into the hiding holes. The servants looked amongst thehorses, and they did not find anything wrong. and they returned andthey told this to the king, and the king said to them that if nothingwas wrong they should go to their places of rest. When the gillies hadtime to be gone, Conall and his sons laid their hands again on thehorse. If the noise was great that he made before, the noise he madenow was seven times greater. The king sent a message for his gilliesagain, and said for certain there was something troubling the brownhorse. "Go and look well about him." The servants went out, and theywent to their hiding holes. The servants rummaged well, and did notfind a thing. They returned and they told this."That is marvellous for me," said the king: "go you to lie down again,and if I notice it again I will go out myself."When Conall and his sons perceived that the gillies were gone, theylaid hands again on the horse, and one of them caught him, and if thenoise that the horse made on the two former times was great, he mademore this time."Be this from me," said the king. "it must be that some one istroubling my brown horse." He sounded the bell hastily, and when hiswaiting man came to him, he said to him to let the stable gillies knowthat something was wrong with the horse. The gillies came, and the kingwent with them. When Conall and his sons perceived the company comingthey went to the hiding holes.The king was a wary man, and he saw where the horses were making anoise."Be wary," said the king, "there are men within the stable, let us getat them somehow."The king followed the tracks of the men, and he found them. Every oneknew Conall, for he was a valued tenant of the king of Erin, and whenthe king brought them up out of the holes he said, "Oh, Conall, is ityou that are here?""I am, O king, without question, and necessity made me come. I am underthy pardon, and under thine honour, and under thy grace." He told howit happened to him, and that he had to get the brown horse for the kingof Erin, or that his sons were to be put to death. "I knew that Ishould not get him by asking, and I was going to steal him.""Yes, Conall, it is well enough, but come in," said the king. Hedesired his look out men to set a watch on the sons of Conall, and togive them meat. And a double watch was set that night on the sons ofConall."Now, O Conall," said the king, "were you ever in a harder place thanto be seeing your lot of sons hanged tomorrow? But you set it to mygoodness and to my grace, and say that it was necessity brought it onyou, so I must not hang you. Tell me any case in which you were as hardas this, and if you tell that, you shall get the soul of your youngestson.""I will tell a case as hard in which I was," said Conall. "I was once ayoung lad, and my father had much land, and he had parks of year oldcows, and one of them had just calved, and my father told me to bringher home. I found the cow, and took her with us. There fell a shower ofsnow. We went into the herd's bothy, and we took the cow and the calfin with us, and we were letting the shower pass from us. Who shouldcome in but one cat and ten, and one great one eyed fox coloured cat ashead bard over them. When they came in, in very deed I myself had noliking for their company. 'Strike up with you,' said the head bard,'why should we be still? and sing a cronan to Conall Yellowclaw.' I wasamazed that my name was known to the cats themselves. When they hadsung the cronan, said the head bard, 'Now, O Conall, pay the reward ofthe cronan that the cats have sung to thee.' 'Well then,' said Imyself, 'I have no reward whatsoever for you, unless you should go downand take that calf.' No sooner said I the word than the two cats andten went down to attack the calf, and in very deed, he did not lastthem long. 'Play up with you, why should you be silent? Make a cronanto Conall Yellowclaw,' said the head bard. Certainly I had no liking atall for the cronan, but up came the one cat and ten, and if they didnot sing me a cronan then and there! 'Pay them now their reward,' saidthe great fox coloured cat. 'I am tired myself of yourselves and yourrewards,' said I. 'I have no reward for you unless you take that cowdown there.' They betook themselves to the cow, and indeed she did notlast them long."'Why will you be silent? Go up and sing a cronan to ConallYellowclaw,' said the head bard. And surely, oh king, I had no care forthem or for their cronan, for I began to see that they were not goodcomrades. When they had sung me the cronan they betook themselves downwhere the head bard was. 'Pay now their reward, said the head bard. andfor sure, oh king, I had no reward for them. and I said to them, 'Ihave no reward for you.' And surely, oh king, there was catterwaulingbetween them. So I leapt out at a turf window that was at the back ofthe house. I took myself off as hard as I might into the wood. I wasswift enough and strong at that time. and when I felt the rustlingtoirm of the cats after me I climbed into as high a tree as I saw inthe place, and one that was close in the top. and I hid myself as wellas I might. The cats began to search for me through the wood, and theycould not find me. and when they were tired, each one said to the otherthat they would turn back. 'But,' said the one eyed fox coloured catthat was commander in chief over them, 'you saw him not with your twoeyes, and though I have but one eye, there's the rascal up in thetree.' When he had said that, one of them went up in the tree, and ashe was coming where I was, I drew a weapon that I had and I killed him.'Be this from me!' said the one eyed one 'I must not be losing mycompany thus. gather round the root of the tree and dig about it, andlet down that villain to earth.' On this they gathered about the tree,and they dug about the root, and the first branching root that theycut, she gave a shiver to fall, and I myself gave a shout, and it wasnot to be wondered at."There was in the neighbourhood of the wood a priest, and he had tenmen with him delving, and he said, 'There is a shout of a man inextremity and I must not be without replying to it.' And the wisest ofthe men said, 'Let it alone till we hear it again.' The cats beganagain digging wildly, and they broke the next root. and I myself gavethe next shout, and in very deed it was not a weak one. 'Certainly,'said the priest, 'it is a man in extremity let us move.' They setthemselves in order for moving. And the cats arose on the tree, andthey broke the third root, and the tree fell on her elbow. Then I gavethe third shout. The stalwart men hastened, and when they saw how thecats served the tree, they began at them with the spades. and theythemselves and the cats began at each other, till the cats ran away.And surely, oh king, I did not move till I saw the last one of themoff. And then I came home. And there's the hardest case in which I everwas. and it seems to me that tearing by the cats were harder thanhanging to morrow by the king of Lochlann.""Och! Conall," said the king, "you are full of words. You have freedthe soul of your son with your tale. and if you tell me a harder casethan that you will get your second youngest son, and then you will havetwo sons.""Well then," said Conall, "on condition that thou dost that, I willtell thee how I was once in a harder case than to be in thy power inprison to night.""Let's hear," said the king."I was then," said Conall, "quite a young lad, and I went out hunting,and my father's land was beside the sea, and it was rough with rocks,caves, and rifts. When I was going on the top of the shore, I saw as ifthere were a smoke coming up between two rocks, and I began to lookwhat might be the meaning of the smoke coming up there. When I waslooking, what should I do but fall. and the place was so full ofheather, that neither bone nor skin was broken. I knew not how I shouldget out of this. I was not looking before me, but I kept lookingoverhead the way I came and thinking that the day would never comethat I could get up there. It was terrible for me to be there till Ishould die. I heard a great clattering coming, and what was there but agreat giant and two dozen of goats with him, and a buck at their head.And when the giant had tied the goats, he came up and he said to me,'Hao O! Conall, it's long since my knife has been rusting in my pouchwaiting for thy tender flesh.' 'Och!' said I, 'it's not much you willbe bettered by me, though you should tear me asunder. I will make butone meal for you. But I see that you are one eyed. I am a good leech,and I will give you the sight of the other eye.' The giant went and hedrew the great caldron on the site of the fire. I myself was tellinghim how he should heat the water, so that I should give its sight tothe other eye. I got heather and I made a rubber of it, and I set himupright in the caldron. I began at the eye that was well, pretending tohim that I would give its sight to the other one, till I left them asbad as each other. and surely it was easier to spoil the one that waswell than to give sight to the other."When he saw that he could not see a glimpse, and when I myself said tohim that I would get out in spite of him, he gave a spring out of thewater, and he stood in the mouth of the cave, and he said that he wouldhave revenge for the sight of his eye. I had but to stay there crouchedthe length of the night, holding in my breath in such a way that hemight not find out where I was."When he felt the birds calling in the morning, and knew that the daywas, he said 'Art thou sleeping? Awake and let out my lot of goats.' Ikilled the buck. He cried, 'I do believe that thou art killing my buck.'"'I am not,' said I, 'but the ropes are so tight that I take long toloose them.' I let out one of the goats, and there he was caressingher, and he said to her, 'There thou art thou shaggy, hairy white goat.and thou seest me, but I see thee not.' I kept letting them out by theway of one and one, as I flayed the buck, and before the last one wasout I had him flayed bag wise. Then I went and I put my legs in placeof his legs, and my hands in place of his forelegs, and my head inplace of his head, and the horns on top of my head, so that the brutemight think that it was the buck. I went out. When I was going out thegiant laid his hand on me, and he said, 'There thou art, thou prettybuck. thou seest me, but I see thee not.' When I myself got out, and Isaw the world about me, surely, oh, king! joy was on me. When I was outand had shaken the skin off me, I said to the brute, 'I am out now inspite of you.'"'Aha!' said he, 'hast thou done this to me. Since thou wert sostalwart that thou hast got out, I will give thee a ring that I havehere. keep the ring, and it will do thee good.'"'I will not take the ring from you,' said I, 'but throw it, and I willtake it with me.' He threw the ring on the flat ground, I went myselfand I lifted the ring, and I put it on my finger. When he said me then,'Is the ring fitting thee?' I said to him, 'It is.' Then he said,'Where art thou, ring?' And the ring said, 'I am here.' The brute wentand went towards where the ring was speaking, and now I saw that I wasin a harder case than ever I was. I drew a dirk. I cut the finger fromoff me, and I threw it from me as far as I could out on the loch, andthere was a great depth in the place. He shouted, 'Where art thou,ring?' And the ring said, 'I am here,' though it was on the bed ofocean. He gave a spring after the ring, and out he went in the sea. AndI was as pleased then when I saw him drowning, as though you shouldgrant my own life and the life of my two sons with me, and not lay anymore trouble on me."When the giant was drowned I went in, and I took with me all he had ofgold and silver, and I went home, and surely great joy was on my peoplewhen I arrived. And as a sign now look, the finger is off me.""Yes, indeed, Conall, you are wordy and wise," said the king. "I seethe finger is off you. You have freed your two sons, but tell me a casein which you ever were that is harder than to be looking on your sonbeing hanged tomorrow, and you shall get the soul of your eldest son.""Then went my father," said Conall, "and he got me a wife, and I wasmarried. I went to hunt. I was going beside the sea, and I saw anisland over in the midst of the loch, and I came there where a boat waswith a rope before her, and a rope behind her, and many precious thingswithin her. I looked myself on the boat to see how I might get part ofthem. I put in the one foot, and the other foot was on the ground, andwhen I raised my head what was it but the boat over in the middle ofthe loch, and she never stopped till she reached the island. When Iwent out of the boat the boat returned where she was before. I did notknow now what I should do. The place was without meat or clothing,without the appearance of a house on it. I came out on the top of ahill. Then I came to a glen. I saw in it, at the bottom of a hollow, awoman with a child, and the child was naked on her knee, and she had aknife in her hand. She tried to put the knife to the throat of thebabe, and the babe began to laugh in her face, and she began to cry,and she threw the knife behind her. I thought to myself that I was nearmy foe and far from my friends, and I called to the woman, 'What areyou doing here?' And she said to me, 'What brought you here?' I toldher myself word upon word how I came. 'Well then,' said she, 'it was soI came also.' She showed me to the place where I should come in whereshe was. I went in, and I said to her, 'What was the matter that youwere putting the knife on the neck of the child?' 'It is that he mustbe cooked for the giant who is here, or else no more of my world willbe before me.' Just then we could be hearing the footsteps of thegiant, 'What shall I do? what shall I do?' cried the woman. I went tothe caldron, and by luck it was not hot, so in it I got just as thebrute came in. 'Hast thou boiled that youngster for me?' he cried.'He's not done yet,' said she, and I cried out from the caldron,'Mammy, mammy, it's boiling I am.' Then the giant laughed out HAI, HAW,HOGARAICH, and heaped on wood under the caldron."And now I was sure I would scald before I could get out of that. Asfortune favoured me, the brute slept beside the caldron. There I wasscalded by the bottom of the caldron. When she perceived that he wasasleep, she set her mouth quietly to the hole that was in the lid, andshe said to me 'was I alive?' I said I was. I put up my head, and thehole in the lid was so large, that my head went through easily.Everything was coming easily with me till I began to bring up my hips.I left the skin of my hips behind me, but I came out. When I got out ofthe caldron I knew not what to do. and she said to me that there was noweapon that would kill him but his own weapon. I began to draw hisspear and every breath that he drew I thought I would be down histhroat, and when his breath came out I was back again just as far. Butwith every ill that befell me I got the spear loosed from him. Then Iwas as one under a bundle of straw in a great wind for I could notmanage the spear. And it was fearful to look on the brute, who had butone eye in the midst of his face. and it was not agreeable for the likeof me to attack him. I drew the dart as best I could, and I set it inhis eye. When he felt this he gave his head a lift, and he struck theother end of the dart on the top of the cave, and it went through tothe back of his head. And he fell cold dead where he was. and you maybe sure, oh king, that joy was on me. I myself and the woman went outon clear ground, and we passed the night there. I went and got the boatwith which I came, and she was no way lightened, and took the woman andthe child over on dry land. and I returned home."The king of Lochlann's mother was putting on a fire at this time, andlistening to Conall telling the tale about the child."Is it you," said she, "that were there?""Well then," said he, "'twas I.""Och! och!" said she, "'twas I that was there, and the king is thechild whose life you saved. and it is to you that life thanks should begiven." Then they took great joy.The king said, "Oh, Conall, you came through great hardships. And nowthe brown horse is yours, and his sack full of the most precious thingsthat are in my treasury."They lay down that night, and if it was early that Conall rose, it wasearlier than that that the queen was on foot making ready. He got thebrown horse and his sack full of gold and silver and stones of greatprice, and then Conall and his three sons went away, and they returnedhome to the Erin realm of gladness. He left the gold and silver in hishouse, and he went with the horse to the king. They were good friendsevermore. He returned home to his wife, and they set in order a feast.and that was a feast if ever there was one, oh son and brother.HUDDEN AND DUDDEN AND DONALD O'NEARYThere was once upon a time two farmers, and their names were Hudden andDudden. They had poultry in their yards, sheep on the uplands, andscores of cattle in the meadow land alongside the river. But for allthat they weren't happy. For just between their two farms there lived apoor man by the name of Donald O'Neary. He had a hovel over his headand a strip of grass that was barely enough to keep his one cow, Daisy,from starving, and, though she did her best, it was but seldom thatDonald got a drink of milk or a roll of butter from Daisy. You wouldthink there was little here to make Hudden and Dudden jealous, but soit is, the more one has the more one wants, and Donald's neighbours layawake of nights scheming how they might get hold of his little strip ofgrass land. Daisy, poor thing, they never thought of. she was just abag of bones.One day Hudden met Dudden, and they were soon grumbling as usual, andall to the tune of "If only we could get that vagabond Donald O'Nearyout of the country.""Let's kill Daisy," said Hudden at last. "if that doesn't make himclear out, nothing will."No sooner said than agreed, and it wasn't dark before Hudden and Duddencrept up to the little shed where lay poor Daisy trying her best tochew the cud, though she hadn't had as much grass in the day as wouldcover your hand. And when Donald came to see if Daisy was all snug forthe night, the poor beast had only time to lick his hand once beforeshe died.Well, Donald was a shrewd fellow, and downhearted though he was, beganto think if he could get any good out of Daisy's death. He thought andhe thought, and the next day you could have seen him trudging off earlyto the fair, Daisy's hide over his shoulder, every penny he hadjingling in his pockets. Just before he got to the fair, he madeseveral slits in the hide, put a penny in each slit, walked into thebest inn of the town as bold as if it belonged to him, and, hanging thehide up to a nail in the wall, sat down."Some of your best whisky," says he to the landlord.But the landlord didn't like his looks. "Is it fearing I won't pay you,you are?" says Donald. "why I have a hide here that gives me all themoney I want." And with that he hit it a whack with his stick and outhopped a penny. The landlord opened his eyes, as you may fancy."What'll you take for that hide?""It's not for sale, my good man.""Will you take a gold piece?""It's not for sale, I tell you. Hasn't it kept me and mine for years?"and with that Donald hit the hide another whack and out jumped a secondpenny.Well, the long and the short of it was that Donald let the hide go,and, that very evening, who but he should walk up to Hudden's door?"Good evening, Hudden. Will you lend me your best pair of scales?"Hudden stared and Hudden scratched his head, but he lent the scales.When Donald was safe at home, he pulled out his pocketful of brightgold and began to weigh each piece in the scales. But Hudden had put alump of butter at the bottom, and so the last piece of gold stuck fastto the scales when he took them back to Hudden.If Hudden had stared before, he stared ten times more now, and nosooner was Donald's back turned, than he was of as hard as he couldpelt to Dudden's."Good evening, Dudden. That vagabond, bad luck to him ""You mean Donald O'Neary?""And who else should I mean? He's back here weighing out sackfuls ofgold.""How do you know that?""Here are my scales that he borrowed, and here's a gold piece stillsticking to them."Off they went together, and they came to Donald's door. Donald hadfinished making the last pile of ten gold pieces. And he couldn'tfinish because a piece had stuck to the scales.In they walked without an "If you please" or "By your leave.""Well, _I_ never!" that was all _they_ could say."Good evening, Hudden. good evening, Dudden. Ah! you thought you hadplayed me a fine trick, but you never did me a better turn in all yourlives. When I found poor Daisy dead, I thought to myself, 'Well, herhide may fetch something.' and it did. Hides are worth their weight ingold in the market just now."Hudden nudged Dudden, and Dudden winked at Hudden."Good evening, Donald O'Neary.""Good evening, kind friends."The next day there wasn't a cow or a calf that belonged to Hudden orDudden but her hide was going to the fair in Hudden's biggest cartdrawn by Dudden's strongest pair of horses.When they came to the fair, each one took a hide over his arm, andthere they were walking through the fair, bawling out at the top oftheir voices: "Hides to sell! hides to sell!"Out came the tanner:"How much for your hides, my good men?""Their weight in gold.""It's early in the day to come out of the tavern."That was all the tanner said, and back he went to his yard."Hides to sell! Fine fresh hides to sell!"Out came the cobbler."How much for your hides, my men?""Their weight in gold.""Is it making game of me you are! Take that for your pains," and thecobbler dealt Hudden a blow that made him stagger.Up the people came running from one end of the fair to the other."What's the matter? What's the matter?" cried they."Here are a couple of vagabonds selling hides at their weight in gold,"said the cobbler."Hold 'em fast. hold 'em fast!" bawled the innkeeper, who was the lastto come up, he was so fat. "I'll wager it's one of the rogues whotricked me out of thirty gold pieces yesterday for a wretched hide."It was more kicks than halfpence that Hudden and Dudden got before theywere well on their way home again, and they didn't run the slowerbecause all the dogs of the town were at their heels.Well, as you may fancy, if they loved Donald little before, they lovedhim less now."What's the matter, friends?" said he, as he saw them tearing along,their hats knocked in, and their coats torn off, and their faces blackand blue. "Is it fighting you've been? or mayhap you met the police,ill luck to them?""We'll police you, you vagabond. It's mighty smart you thoughtyourself, deluding us with your lying tales.""Who deluded you? Didn't you see the gold with your own two eyes?"But it was no use talking. Pay for it he must, and should. There was ameal sack handy, and into it Hudden and Dudden popped Donald O'Neary,tied him up tight, ran a pole through the knot, and off they startedfor the Brown Lake of the Bog, each with a pole end on his shoulder,and Donald O'Neary between.But the Brown Lake was far, the road was dusty, Hudden and Dudden weresore and weary, and parched with thirst. There was an inn by theroadside."Let's go in," said Hudden. "I'm dead beat. It's heavy he is for thelittle he had to eat."If Hudden was willing, so was Dudden. As for Donald, you may be surehis leave wasn't asked, but he was lumped down at the inn door for allthe world as if he had been a sack of potatoes."Sit still, you vagabond," said Dudden. "if we don't mind waiting, youneedn't."Donald held his peace, but after a while he heard the glasses clink,and Hudden singing away at the top of his voice."I won't have her, I tell you. I won't have her!" said Donald. Butnobody heeded what he said."I won't have her, I tell you. I won't have her!" said Donald, and thistime he said it louder. but nobody heeded what he said."I won't have her, I tell you. I won't have her!" said Donald. and thistime he said it as loud as he could."And who won't you have, may I be so bold as to ask?" said a farmer,who had just come up with a drove of cattle, and was turning in for aglass."It's the king's daughter. They are bothering the life out of me tomarry her.""You're the lucky fellow. I'd give something to be in your shoes.""Do you see that now! Wouldn't it be a fine thing for a farmer to bemarrying a princess, all dressed in gold and jewels?""Jewels, do you say? Ah, now, couldn't you take me with you?""Well, you're an honest fellow, and as I don't care for the king'sdaughter, though she's as beautiful as the day, and is covered withjewels from top to toe, you shall have her. Just undo the cord, and letme out. they tied me up tight, as they knew I'd run away from her."Out crawled Donald. in crept the farmer."Now lie still, and don't mind the shaking. it's only rumbling over thepalace steps you'll be. And maybe they'll abuse you for a vagabond, whowon't have the king's daughter. but you needn't mind that. Ah! it's adeal I'm giving up for you, sure as it is that I don't care for theprincess.""Take my cattle in exchange," said the farmer. and you may guess itwasn't long before Donald was at their tails driving them homewards.Out came Hudden and Dudden, and the one took one end of the pole, andthe other the other."I'm thinking he's heavier," said Hudden."Ah, never mind," said Dudden. "it's only a step now to the Brown Lake.""I'll have her now! I'll have her now!" bawled the farmer, from insidethe sack."By my faith, and you shall though," said Hudden, and he laid his stickacross the sack."I'll have her! I'll have her!" bawled the farmer, louder than ever."Well, here you are," said Dudden, for they were now come to the BrownLake, and, unslinging the sack, they pitched it plump into the lake."You'll not be playing your tricks on us any longer," said Hudden."True for you," said Dudden. "Ah, Donald, my boy, it was an ill daywhen you borrowed my scales."Off they went, with a light step and an easy heart, but when they werenear home, who should they see but Donald O'Neary, and all around himthe cows were grazing, and the calves were kicking up their heels andbutting their heads together."Is it you, Donald?" said Dudden. "Faith, you've been quicker than wehave.""True for you, Dudden, and let me thank you kindly. the turn was good,if the will was ill. You'll have heard, like me, that the Brown Lakeleads to the Land of Promise. I always put it down as lies, but it isjust as true as my word. Look at the cattle."Hudden stared, and Dudden gaped. but they couldn't get over the cattle.fine fat cattle they were too."It's only the worst I could bring up with me," said Donald O'Neary."the others were so fat, there was no driving them. Faith, too, it'slittle wonder they didn't care to leave, with grass as far as you couldsee, and as sweet and juicy as fresh butter.""Ah, now, Donald, we haven't always been friends," said Dudden, "but,as I was just saying, you were ever a decent lad, and you'll show usthe way, won't you?""I don't see that I'm called upon to do that. there is a power morecattle down there. Why shouldn't I have them all to myself?""Faith, they may well say, the richer you get, the harder the heart.You always were a neighbourly lad, Donald. You wouldn't wish to keepthe luck all to yourself?""True for you, Hudden, though 'tis a bad example you set me. But I'llnot be thinking of old times. There is plenty for all there, so comealong with me."Off they trudged, with a light heart and an eager step. When they cameto the Brown Lake, the sky was full of little white clouds, and, if thesky was full, the lake was as full."Ah! now, look, there they are," cried Donald, as he pointed to theclouds in the lake."Where? where?" cried Hudden, and "Don't be greedy!" cried Dudden, ashe jumped his hardest to be up first with the fat cattle. But if hejumped first, Hudden wasn't long behind.They never came back. Maybe they got too fat, like the cattle. As forDonald O'Neary, he had cattle and sheep all his days to his heart'scontent.THE SHEPHERD OF MYDDVAIUp in the Black Mountains in Caermarthenshire lies the lake known asLyn y Van Vach. To the margin of this lake the shepherd of Myddvai onceled his lambs, and lay there whilst they sought pasture. Suddenly, fromthe dark waters of the lake, he saw three maidens rise. Shaking thebright drops from their hair and gliding to the shore, they wanderedabout amongst his flock. They had more than mortal beauty, and he wasfilled with love for her that came nearest to him. He offered her thebread he had with him, and she took it and tried it, but then sang tohim:Hard baked is thy bread,'Tis not easy to catch me,and then ran off laughing to the lake.Next day he took with him bread not so well done, and watched for themaidens. When they came ashore he offered his bread as before, and themaiden tasted it and sang:Unbaked is thy bread,I will not have thee,and again disappeared in the waves.A third time did the shepherd of Myddvai try to attract the maiden, andthis time he offered her bread that he had found floating about nearthe shore. This pleased her, and she promised to become his wife if hewere able to pick her out from among her sisters on the following day.When the time came the shepherd knew his love by the strap of hersandal. Then she told him she would be as good a wife to him as anyearthly maiden could be unless he should strike her three times withoutcause. Of course he deemed that this could never be. and she, summoningfrom the lake three cows, two oxen, and a bull, as her marriageportion, was led homeward by him as his bride.The years passed happily, and three children were born to the shepherdand the lake maiden. But one day here were going to a christening, andshe said to her husband it was far to walk, so he told her to go forthe horses."I will," said she, "if you bring me my gloves which I've left in thehouse."But when he came back with the gloves, he found she had not gone forthe horses. so he tapped her lightly on the shoulder with the gloves,and said, "Go, go.""That's one," said she.Another time they were at a wedding, when suddenly the lake maiden fella sobbing and a weeping, amid the joy and mirth of all around her.Her husband tapped her on the shoulder, and asked her, "Why do youweep?""Because they are entering into trouble. and trouble is upon you. forthat is the second causeless blow you have given me. Be careful. thethird is the last."The husband was careful never to strike her again. But one day at afuneral she suddenly burst out into fits of laughter. Her husbandforgot, and touched her rather roughly on the shoulder, saying, "Isthis a time for laughter?""I laugh," she said, "because those that die go out of trouble, butyour trouble has come. The last blow has been struck. our marriage isat an end, and so farewell." And with that she rose up and left thehouse and went to their home.Then she, looking round upon her home, called to the cattle she hadbrought with her:Brindle cow, white speckled,Spotted cow, bold freckled,Old white face, and gray Geringer,And the white bull from the king's coast,Grey ox, and black calf,All, all, follow me home,Now the black calf had just been slaughtered, and was hanging on thehook. but it got off the hook alive and well and followed her. and theoxen, though they were ploughing, trailed the plough with them and didher bidding. So she fled to the lake again, they following her, andwith them plunged into the dark waters.And to this day is the furrow seen which the plough left as it wasdragged across the mountains to the tarn.Only once did she come again, when her sons were grown to manhood, andthen she gave them gifts of healing by which they won the name ofMeddygon Myddvai, the physicians of Myddvai.THE SPRIGHTLY TAILORA sprightly tailor was employed by the great Macdonald, in his castleat Saddell, in order to make the laird a pair of trews, used in oldentime. And trews being the vest and breeches united in one piece, andornamented with fringes, were very comfortable, and suitable to be wornin walking or dancing. And Macdonald had said to the tailor, that if hewould make the trews by night in the church, he would get a handsomereward. For it was thought that the old ruined church was haunted, andthat fearsome things were to be seen there at night.The tailor was well aware of this. but he was a sprightly man, and whenthe laird dared him to make the trews by night in the church, thetailor was not to be daunted, but took it in hand to gain the prize.So, when night came, away he went up the glen, about half a miledistance from the castle, till he came to the old church. Then he chosehim a nice gravestone for a seat and he lighted his candle, and put onhis thimble, and set to work at the trews. plying his needle nimbly,and thinking about the hire that the laird would have to give him.For some time he got on pretty well, until he felt the floor all of atremble under his feet. and looking about him, but keeping his fingersat work, he saw the appearance of a great human head rising up throughthe stone pavement of the church. And when the head had risen above thesurface, there came from it a great, great voice. And the voice said:"Do you see this great head of mine?""I see that, but I'll sew this!" replied the sprightly tailor. and hestitched away at the trews.Then the head rose higher up through the pavement, until its neckappeared. And when its neck was shown, the thundering voice came againand said: "Do you see this great neck of mine?""I see that, but I'll sew this!" said the sprightly tailor. and hestitched away at his trews.Then the head and neck rose higher still, until the great shoulders andchest were shown above the ground. And again the mighty voicethundered: "Do you see this great chest of mine?"And again the sprightly tailor replied: "I see that, but I'll sewthis!" and stitched away at his trews.And still it kept rising through the pavement, until it shook a greatpair of arms in the tailor's face, and said: "Do you see these greatarms of mine?""I see those, but I'll sew this!" answered the tailor. and he stitchedhard at his trews, for he knew that he had no time to lose.The sprightly tailor was taking the long stitches, when he saw itgradually rising and rising through the floor, until it lifted out agreat leg, and stamping with it upon the pavement, said in a roaringvoice: "Do you see this great leg of mine?""Aye, aye: I see that, but I'll sew this!" cried the tailor. and hisfingers flew with the needle, and he took such long stitches, that hewas just come to the end of the trews, when it was taking up its otherleg. But before it could pull it out of the pavement, the sprightlytailor had finished his task. and, blowing out his candle, andspringing from off his gravestone, he buckled up, and ran out of thechurch with the trews under his arm. Then the fearsome thing gave aloud roar, and stamped with both his feet upon the pavement, and out ofthe church he went after the sprightly tailor.Down the glen they ran, faster than the stream when the flood rides it.but the tailor had got the start and a nimble pair of legs, and he didnot choose to lose the laird's reward. And though the thing roared tohim to stop, yet the sprightly tailor was not the man to be beholden toa monster. So he held his trews tight, and let no darkness grow underhis feet, until he had reached Saddell Castle. He had no sooner gotinside the gate, and shut it, than the apparition came up to it. and,enraged at losing his prize, struck the wall above the gate, and leftthere the mark of his five great fingers. Ye may see them plainly tothis day, if ye'll only peer close enough.But the sprightly tailor gained his reward: for Macdonald paid himhandsomely for the trews, and never discovered that a few of thestitches were somewhat long.THE STORY OF DEIRDREThere was a man in Ireland once who was called Malcolm Harper. The manwas a right good man, and he had a goodly share of this world's goods.He had a wife, but no family. What did Malcolm hear but that asoothsayer had come home to the place, and as the man was a right goodman, he wished that the soothsayer might come near them. Whether it wasthat he was invited or that he came of himself, the soothsayer came tothe house of Malcolm."Are you doing any soothsaying?" says Malcolm."Yes, I am doing a little. Are you in need of soothsaying?""Well, I do not mind taking soothsaying from you, if you hadsoothsaying for me, and you would be willing to do it.""Well, I will do soothsaying for you. What kind of soothsaying do youwant?""Well, the soothsaying I wanted was that you would tell me my lot orwhat will happen to me, if you can give me knowledge of it.""Well, I am going out, and when I return, I will tell you."And the soothsayer went forth out of the house and he was not longoutside when he returned."Well," said the soothsayer, "I saw in my second sight that it is onaccount of a daughter of yours that the greatest amount of blood shallbe shed that has ever been shed in Erin since time and race began. Andthe three most famous heroes that ever were found will lose their headson her account."After a time a daughter was born to Malcolm, he did not allow a livingbeing to come to his house, only himself and the nurse. He asked thiswoman, "Will you yourself bring up the child to keep her in hiding faraway where eye will not see a sight of her nor ear hear a word abouther?"The woman said she would, so Malcolm got three men, and he took themaway to a large mountain, distant and far from reach, without theknowledge or notice of any one. He caused there a hillock, round andgreen, to be dug out of the middle, and the hole thus made to becovered carefully over so that a little company could dwell theretogether. This was done.Deirdre and her foster mother dwelt in the bothy mid the hills withoutthe knowledge or the suspicion of any living person about them andwithout anything occurring, until Deirdre was sixteen years of age.Deirdre grew like the white sapling, straight and trim as the rash onthe moss. She was the creature of fairest form, of loveliest aspect,and of gentlest nature that existed between earth and heaven in allIreland whatever colour of hue she had before, there was nobody thatlooked into her face but she would blush fiery red over it.The woman that had charge of her, gave Deirdre every information andskill of which she herself had knowledge and skill. There was not ablade of grass growing from root, nor a bird singing in the wood, nor astar shining from heaven but Deirdre had a name for it. But one thing,she did not wish her to have either part or parley with any singleliving man of the rest of the world. But on a gloomy winter night, withblack, scowling clouds, a hunter of game was wearily travelling thehills, and what happened but that he missed the trail of the hunt, andlost his course and companions. A drowsiness came upon the man as hewearily wandered over the hills, and he lay down by the side of thebeautiful green knoll in which Deirdre lived, and he slept. The man wasfaint from hunger and wandering, and benumbed with cold, and a deepsleep fell upon him. When he lay down beside the green hill whereDeirdre was, a troubled dream came to the man, and he thought that heenjoyed the warmth of a fairy broch, the fairies being inside playingmusic. The hunter shouted out in his dream, if there was any one in thebroch, to let him in for the Holy One's sake. Deirdre heard the voiceand said to her foster mother: "O foster mother, what cry is that?" "Itis nothing at all, Deirdre merely the birds of the air astray andseeking each other. But let them go past to the bosky glade. There isno shelter or house for them here." "Oh, foster mother, the bird askedto get inside for the sake of the God of the Elements, and you yourselftell me that anything that is asked in His name we ought to do. If youwill not allow the bird that is being benumbed with cold, and done todeath with hunger, to be let in, I do not think much of your languageor your faith. But since I give credence to your language and to yourfaith, which you taught me, I will myself let in the bird." And Deirdrearose and drew the bolt from the leaf of the door, and she let in thehunter. She placed a seat in the place for sitting, food in the placefor eating, and drink in the place for drinking for the man who came tothe house. "Oh, for this life and raiment, you man that came in, keeprestraint on your tongue!" said the old woman. "It is not a great thingfor you to keep your mouth shut and your tongue quiet when you get ahome and shelter of a hearth on a gloomy winter's night.""Well," said the hunter, "I may do that keep my mouth shut and mytongue quiet, since I came to the house and received hospitality fromyou. but by the hand of thy father and grandfather, and by your own twohands, if some other of the people of the world saw this beauteouscreature you have here hid away, they would not long leave her withyou, I swear.""What men are these you refer to?" said Deirdre."Well, I will tell you, young woman," said the hunter."They are Naois, son of Uisnech, and Allen and Arden his two brothers.""What like are these men when seen, if we were to see them?" saidDeirdre."Why, the aspect and form of the men when seen are these," said thehunter: "they have the colour of the raven on their hair, their skinlike swan on the wave in whiteness, and their cheeks as the blood ofthe brindled red calf, and their speed and their leap are those of thesalmon of the torrent and the deer of the grey mountain side. And Naoisis head and shoulders over the rest of the people of Erin.""However they are," said the nurse, "be you off from here and takeanother road. And, King of Light and Sun! in good sooth and certainty,little are my thanks for yourself or for her that let you in!"The hunter went away, and went straight to the palace of KingConnachar. He sent word in to the king that he wished to speak to himif he pleased. The king answered the message and came out to speak tothe man. "What is the reason of your journey?" said the king to thehunter."I have only to tell you, O king," said the hunter, "that I saw thefairest creature that ever was born in Erin, and I came to tell you ofit.""Who is this beauty and where is she to be seen, when she was not seenbefore till you saw her, if you did see her?""Well, I did see her," said the hunter. "But, if I did, no man else cansee her unless he get directions from me as to where she is dwelling.""And will you direct me to where she dwells? and the reward of yourdirecting me will be as good as the reward of your message," said theking."Well, I will direct you, O king, although it is likely that this willnot be what they want," said the hunter.Connachar, King of Ulster, sent for his nearest kinsmen, and he toldthem of his intent. Though early rose the song of the birds mid therocky caves and the music of the birds in the grove, earlier than thatdid Connachar, King of Ulster, arise, with his little troop of dearfriends, in the delightful twilight of the fresh and gentle May. thedew was heavy on each bush and flower and stem, as they went to bringDeirdre forth from the green knoll where she stayed. Many a youth wasthere who had a lithe leaping and lissom step when they started whosestep was faint, failing, and faltering when they reached the bothy onaccount of the length of the way and roughness of the road."Yonder, now, down in the bottom of the glen is the bothy where thewoman dwells, but I will not go nearer than this to the old woman,"said the hunter.Connachar with his band of kinsfolk went down to the green knoll whereDeirdre dwelt and he knocked at the door of the bothy. The nursereplied, "No less than a king's command and a king's army could put meout of my bothy to night. And I should be obliged to you, were you totell who it is that wants me to open my bothy door.""It is I, Connachar, King of Ulster." When the poor woman heard who wasat the door, she rose with haste and let in the king and all that couldget in of his retinue.When the king saw the woman that was before him that he had been inquest of, he thought he never saw in the course of the day nor in thedream of night a creature so fair as Deirdre and he gave his fullheart's weight of love to her. Deirdre was raised on the topmost of theheroes' shoulders and she and her foster mother were brought to theCourt of King Connachar of Ulster.With the love that Connachar had for her, he wanted to marry Deirdreright off there and then, will she nill she marry him. But she said tohim, "I would be obliged to you if you will give me the respite of ayear and a day." He said "I will grant you that, hard though it is, ifyou will give me your unfailing promise that you will marry me at theyear's end." And she gave the promise. Connachar got for her awoman teacher and merry modest maidens fair that would lie down andrise with her, that would play and speak with her. Deirdre was cleverin maidenly duties and wifely understanding, and Connachar thought henever saw with bodily eye a creature that pleased him more.Deirdre and her women companions were one day out on the hillock behindthe house enjoying the scene, and drinking in the sun's heat. What didthey see coming but three men a journeying. Deirdre was looking at themen that were coming, and wondering at them. When the men neared them,Deirdre remembered the language of the huntsman, and she said toherself that these were the three sons of Uisnech, and that this wasNaois, he having what was above the bend of the two shoulders above themen of Erin all. The three brothers went past without taking any noticeof them, without even glancing at the young girls on the hillock. Whathappened but that love for Naois struck the heart of Deirdre, so thatshe could not but follow after him. She girded up her raiment and wentafter the men that went past the base of the knoll, leaving her womenattendants there. Allen and Arden had heard of the woman thatConnachar, King of Ulster, had with him, and they thought that, ifNaois, their brother, saw her, he would have her himself, moreespecially as she was not married to the King. They perceived the womancoming, and called on one another to hasten their step as they had along distance to travel, and the dusk of night was coming on. They didso. She cried: "Naois, son of Uisnech, will you leave me?" "Whatpiercing, shrill cry is that the most melodious my ear ever heard, andthe shrillest that ever struck my heart of all the cries I ever heard?""It is anything else but the wail of the wave swans of Connachar," saidhis brothers. "No! yonder is a woman's cry of distress," said Naois,and he swore he would not go further until he saw from whom the crycame, and Naois turned back. Naois and Deirdre met, and Deirdre kissedNaois three times, and a kiss each to his brothers. With the confusionthat she was in, Deirdre went into a crimson blaze of fire, and hercolour came and went as rapidly as the movement of the aspen by thestream side. Naois thought he never saw a fairer creature, and Naoisgave Deirdre the love that he never gave to thing, to vision, or tocreature but to herself.Then Naois placed Deirdre on the topmost height of his shoulder, andtold his brothers to keep up their pace, and they kept up their pace.Naois thought that it would not be well for him to remain in Erin onaccount of the way in which Connachar, King of Ulster, his uncle's son,had gone against him because of the woman, though he had not marriedher. and he turned back to Alba, that is, Scotland. He reached the sideof Loch Ness and made his habitation there. He could kill the salmon ofthe torrent from out his own door, and the deer of the grey gorge fromout his window. Naois and Deirdre and Allen and Arden dwelt in a tower,and they were happy so long a time as they were there.By this time the end of the period came at which Deirdre had to marryConnachar, King of Ulster. Connachar made up his mind to take Deirdreaway by the sword whether she was married to Naois or not. So heprepared a great and gleeful feast. He sent word far and wide throughErin all to his kinspeople to come to the feast. Connachar thought tohimself that Naois would not come though he should bid him. and thescheme that arose in his mind was to send for his father's brother,Ferchar Mac Ro, and to send him on an embassy to Naois. He did so. andConnachar said to Ferchar, "Tell Naois, son of Uisnech, that I amsetting forth a great and gleeful feast to my friends and kinspeoplethroughout the wide extent of Erin all, and that I shall not have restby day nor sleep by night if he and Allen and Arden be not partakers ofthe feast."Ferchar Mac Ro and his three sons went on their journey, and reachedthe tower where Naois was dwelling by the side of Loch Etive. The sonsof Uisnech gave a cordial kindly welcome to Ferchar Mac Ro and histhree sons, and asked of him the news of Erin. "The best news that Ihave for you," said the hardy hero, "is that Connachar, King of Ulster,is setting forth a great sumptuous feast to his friends and kinspeoplethroughout the wide extent of Erin all, and he has vowed by the earthbeneath him, by the high heaven above him, and by the sun that wends tothe west, that he will have no rest by day nor sleep by night if thesons of Uisnech, the sons of his own father's brother, will not comeback to the land of their home and the soil of their nativity, and tothe feast likewise, and he has sent us on embassy to invite you.""We will go with you," said Naois."We will," said his brothers.But Deirdre did not wish to go with Ferchar Mac Ro, and she tried everyprayer to turn Naois from going with him she said:"I saw a vision, Naois, and do you interpret it to me," saidDeirdre then she sang:O Naois, son of Uisnech, hearWhat was shown in a dream to me.There came three white doves out of the SouthFlying over the sea,And drops of honey were in their mouthFrom the hive of the honey bee.O Naois, son of Uisnech, hear,What was shown in a dream to me.I saw three grey hawks out of the southCome flying over the sea,And the red red drops they bare in their mouthThey were dearer than life to me.Said Naois: It is nought but the fear of woman's heart,And a dream of the night, Deirdre."The day that Connachar sent the invitation to his feast will beunlucky for us if we don't go, O Deirdre.""You will go there," said Ferchar Mac Ro. "and if Connachar showkindness to you, show ye kindness to him. and if he will display wrathtowards you display ye wrath towards him, and I and my three sons willbe with you.""We will," said Daring Drop. "We will," said Hardy Holly. "We will,"said Fiallan the Fair."I have three sons, and they are three heroes, and in any harm ordanger that may befall you, they will be with you, and I myself will bealong with them." And Ferchar Mac Ro gave his vow and his word inpresence of his arms that, in any harm or danger that came in the wayof the sons of Uisnech, he and his three sons would not leave head onlive body in Erin, despite sword or helmet, spear or shield, blade ormail, be they ever so good.Deirdre was unwilling to leave Alba, but she went with Naois. Deirdrewept tears in showers and she sang:Dear is the land, the land over there,Alba full of woods and lakes.Bitter to my heart is leaving thee,But I go away with Naois.Ferchar Mac Ro did not stop till he got the sons of Uisnech away withhim, despite the suspicion of Deirdre.The coracle was put to sea,The sail was hoisted to it.And the second morrow they arrivedOn the white shores of Erin.As soon as the sons of Uisnech landed in Erin, Ferchar Mac Ro sent wordto Connachar, king of Ulster, that the men whom he wanted were come,and let him now show kindness to them. "Well," said Connachar, "I didnot expect that the sons of Uisnech would come, though I sent for them,and I am not quite ready to receive them. But there is a house downyonder where I keep strangers, and let them go down to it today, and myhouse will be ready before them tomorrow."But he that was up in the palace felt it long that he was not gettingword as to how matters were going on for those down in the house of thestrangers. "Go you, Gelban Grednach, son of Lochlin's King, go you downand bring me information as to whether her former hue and complexionare on Deirdre. If they be, I will take her out with edge of blade andpoint of sword, and if not, let Naois, son of Uisnech, have her forhimself," said Connachar.Gelban, the cheering and charming son of Lochlin's King, went down tothe place of the strangers, where the sons of Uisnech and Deirdre werestaying. He looked in through the bicker hole on the door leaf. Now shethat he gazed upon used to go into a crimson blaze of blushes when anyone looked at her. Naois looked at Deirdre and knew that some one waslooking at her from the back of the door leaf. He seized one of thedice on the table before him and fired it through the bicker hole, andknocked the eye out of Gelban Grednach the Cheerful and Charming, rightthrough the back of his head. Gelban returned back to the palace ofKing Connachar."You were cheerful, charming, going away, but you are cheerless,charmless, returning. What has happened to you, Gelban? But have youseen her, and are Deirdre's hue and complexion as before?" saidConnachar."Well, I have seen Deirdre, and I saw her also truly, and while I waslooking at her through the bicker hole on the door, Naois, son ofUisnech, knocked out my eye with one of the dice in his hand. But of atruth and verity, although he put out even my eye, it were my desirestill to remain looking at her with the other eye, were it not for thehurry you told me to be in," said Gelban."That is true," said Connachar. "let three hundred bravo heroes go downto the abode of the strangers, and let them bring hither to me Deirdre,and kill the rest."Connachar ordered three hundred active heroes to go down to the abodeof the strangers and to take Deirdre up with them and kill the rest."The pursuit is coming," said Deirdre."Yes, but I will myself go out and stop the pursuit," said Naois."It is not you, but we that will go," said Daring Drop, and HardyHolly, and Fiallan the Fair. "it is to us that our father entrustedyour defence from harm and danger when he himself left for home." Andthe gallant youths, full noble, full manly, full handsome, withbeauteous brown locks, went forth girt with battle arms fit for fiercefight and clothed with combat dress for fierce contest fit, which wasburnished, bright, brilliant, bladed, blazing, on which were manypictures of beasts and birds and creeping things, lions andlithe limbed tigers, brown eagle and harrying hawk and adder fierce.and the young heroes laid low three thirds of the company.Connachar came out in haste and cried with wrath: "Who is there on thefloor of fight, slaughtering my men?""We, the three sons of Ferchar Mac Ro.""Well," said the king, "I will give a free bridge to your grandfather,a free bridge to your father, and a free bridge each to you threebrothers, if you come over to my side tonight.""Well, Connachar, we will not accept that offer from you nor thank youfor it. Greater by far do we prefer to go home to our father and tellthe deeds of heroism we have done, than accept anything on these termsfrom you. Naois, son of Uisnech, and Allen and Arden are as nearlyrelated to yourself as they are to us, though you are so keen to shedtheir blood, and you would shed our blood also, Connachar." And thenoble, manly, handsome youths with beauteous, brown locks returnedinside. "We are now," said they, "going home to tell our father thatyou are now safe from the hands of the king." And the youths all freshand tall and lithe and beautiful, went home to their father to tellthat the sons of Uisnech were safe. This happened at the parting of theday and night in the morning twilight time, and Naois said they must goaway, leave that house, and return to Alba.Naois and Deirdre, Allan and Arden started to return to Alba. Word cameto the king that the company he was in pursuit of were gone. The kingthen sent for Duanan Gacha Druid, the best magician he had, and hespoke to him as follows: "Much wealth have I expended on you, DuananGacha Druid, to give schooling and learning and magic mystery to you,if these people get away from me today without care, withoutconsideration or regard for me, without chance of overtaking them, andwithout power to stop them.""Well, I will stop them," said the magician, "until the company yousend in pursuit return." And the magician placed a wood before themthrough which no man could go, but the sons of Uisnech marched throughthe wood without halt or hesitation, and Deirdre held on to Naois'shand."What is the good of that? that will not do yet," said Connachar. "Theyare off without bending of their feet or stopping of their step,without heed or respect to me, and I am without power to keep up tothem or opportunity to turn them back this night.""I will try another plan on them," said the druid. and he placed beforethem a grey sea instead of a green plain. The three heroes stripped andtied their clothes behind their heads, and Naois placed Deirdre on thetop of his shoulder.They stretched their sides to the stream,And sea and land were to them the same,The rough grey ocean was the sameAs meadow land green and plain."Though that be good, O Duanan, it will not make the heroes return,"said Connachar. "they are gone without regard for me, and withouthonour to me, and without power on my part to pursue them or to forcethem to return this night.""We shall try another method on them, since yon one did not stop them,"said the druid. And the druid froze the grey ridged sea into hard rockyknobs, the sharpness of sword being on the one edge and the poisonpower of adders on the other. Then Arden cried that he was gettingtired, and nearly giving over. "Come you, Arden, and sit on my rightshoulder," said Naois. Arden came and sat, on Naois's shoulder. Ardenwas long in this posture when he died. but though he was dead Naoiswould not let him go. Allen then cried out that he was getting faintand nigh well giving up. When Naois heard his prayer, he gave forth thepiercing sigh of death, and asked Allen to lay hold of him and he wouldbring him to land.Allen was not long when the weakness of death came on him and his holdfailed. Naois looked around, and when he saw his two well belovedbrothers dead, he cared not whether he lived or died, and he gave forththe bitter sigh of death, and his heart burst."They are gone," said Duanan Gacha Druid to the king, "and I have donewhat you desired me. The sons of Uisnech are dead and they will troubleyou no more. and you have your wife hale and whole to yourself.""Blessings for that upon you and may the good results accrue to me,Duanan. I count it no loss what I spent in the schooling and teachingof you. Now dry up the flood, and let me see if I can behold Deirdre,"said Connachar. And Duanan Gacha Druid dried up the flood from theplain and the three sons of Uisnech were lying together dead, withoutbreath of life, side by side on the green meadow plain and Deirdrebending above showering down her tears.Then Deirdre said this lament: "Fair one, loved one, flower of beauty.beloved upright and strong. beloved noble and modest warrior. Fair one,blue eyed, beloved of thy wife. lovely to me at the trysting place camethy clear voice through the woods of Ireland. I cannot eat or smilehenceforth. Break not to day, my heart: soon enough shall I lie withinmy grave. Strong are the waves of sorrow, but stronger is sorrow'sself, Connachar."The people then gathered round the heroes' bodies and asked Connacharwhat was to be done with the bodies. The order that he gave was thatthey should dig a pit and put the three brothers in it side by side.Deirdre kept sitting on the brink of the grave, constantly asking thegravediggers to dig the pit wide and free. When the bodies of thebrothers were put in the grave, Deirdre said: Come over hither, Naois, my love,Let Arden close to Allen lie.If the dead had any sense to feel,Ye would have made a place for Deirdre.The men did as she told them. She jumped into the grave and lay down byNaois, and she was dead by his side.The king ordered the body to be raised from out the grave and to beburied on the other side of the loch. It was done as the king bade, andthe pit closed. Thereupon a fir shoot grew out of the grave of Deirdreand a fir shoot from the grave of Naois, and the two shoots united in aknot above the loch. The king ordered the shoots to be cut down, andthis was done twice, until, at the third time, the wife whom the kinghad married caused him to stop this work of evil and his vengeance onthe remains of the dead.