Once upon a time when pigs spoke rhymeAnd monkeys chewed tobacco,And hens took snuff to make them tough,And ducks went quack, quack, quack, O!There was an old sow with three little pigs, and as she had not enoughto keep them, she sent them out to seek their fortune. The first that wentoff met a man with a bundle of straw, and said to him, "Please, man, giveme that straw to build me a house." Which the man did, and the little pigbuilt a house with it.Presently came along a wolf, and knocked at the door, and said, "Littlepig, little pig, let me come in."To which the pig answered, "No, no, by the hair of my chiny chinchin."The wolf then answered to that, "Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, andI'll blow your house in." So he huffed, and he puffed, and he blew hishouse in, and ate up the little pig.The second little pig met a man with a bundle of furze (sticks), andsaid, "Please, man, give me that furze to build a house." Which the mandid, and the pig built his house.Then along came the wolf, and said, "Little pig, little pig, let mecome in.""No, no, by the hair of my chiny chin chin.""Then I'll puff, and I'll huff, and I'll blow your house in." So hehuffed, and he puffed, and he puffed, and he huffed, and at last he blewthe house down, and he ate up the little pig.The third little pig met a man with a load of bricks, and said,"Please, man, give me those bricks to build a house with." So the man gavehim the bricks, and he built his house with them.So the wolf came, as he did to the other little pigs, and said, "Littlepig, little pig, let me come in.""No, no, by the hair of my chiny chin chin.""Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."Well, he huffed, and he puffed, and he huffed and he puffed, and hepuffed and huffed. but he could not get the house down. When hefound that he could not, with all his huffing and puffing, blow the housedown, he said, "Little pig, I know where there is a nice field ofturnips.""Where?" said the little pig."Oh, in Mr. Smith's home field, and if you will be ready tomorrowmorning I will call for you, and we will go together and get some fordinner.""Very well," said the little pig, "I will be ready. What time do youmean to go?""Oh, at six o'clock."Well, the little pig got up at five, and got the turnips before thewolf came (which he did about six) and who said, "Little pig, are youready?"The little pig said, "Ready! I have been and come back again, and got anice potful for dinner."The wolf felt very angry at this, but thought that he would be up tothe little pig somehow or other, so he said, "Little pig, I know wherethere is a nice apple tree.""Where?" said the pig."Down at Merry Garden," replied the wolf, "and if you will not deceiveme I will come for you, at five o'clock tomorrow and get some apples."Well, the little pig bustled up the next morning at four o'clock, andwent off for the apples, hoping to get back before the wolf came. but hehad further to go, and had to climb the tree, so that just as he wascoming down from it, he saw the wolf coming, which, as you may suppose,frightened him very much.When the wolf came up he said, "Little pig, what! Are you here beforeme? Are they nice apples?""Yes, very," said the little pig. "I will throw you down one." And hethrew it so far, that, while the wolf was gone to pick it up, the littlepig jumped down and ran home.The next day the wolf came again, and said to the little pig, "Littlepig, there is a fair at Shanklin this afternoon. Will you go?""Oh yes," said the pig, "I will go. What time shall you be ready?""At three," said the wolf. So the little pig went off before the timeas usual, and got to the fair, and bought a butter churn, which he wasgoing home with, when he saw the wolf coming. Then he could not tell whatto do. So he got into the churn to hide, and by so doing turned it around,and it rolled down the hill with the pig in it, which frightened the wolfso much, that he ran home without going to the fair. He went to the pig'shouse, and told him how frightened he had been by a great round thingwhich came down the hill past him.Then the little pig said, "Ha, I frightened you, then. I had been tothe fair and bought a butter churn, and when I saw you, I got into it, androlled down the hill."Then the wolf was very angry indeed, and declared he would eatup the little pig, and that he would get down the chimney after him. Whenthe little pig saw what he was about, he hung on the pot full of water,and made up a blazing fire, and, just as the wolf was coming down, tookoff the cover, and in fell the wolf. so the little pig put on the coveragain in an instant, boiled him up, and ate him for supper, and livedhappily ever afterwards.