IN SEVEN STORIESSTORY THE FIRSTWhich describes a looking glass and the broken fragments.You must attend to the commencement of this story, for when we getto the end we shall know more than we do now about a very wickedhobgoblin. he was one of the very worst, for he was a real demon.One day, when he was in a merry mood, he made a looking glass whichhad the power of making everything good or beautiful that wasreflected in it almost shrink to nothing, while everything that wasworthless and bad looked increased in size and worse than ever. Themost lovely landscapes appeared like boiled spinach, and the peoplebecame hideous, and looked as if they stood on their heads and hadno bodies. Their countenances were so distorted that no one couldrecognize them, and even one freckle on the face appeared to spreadover the whole of the nose and mouth. The demon said this was veryamusing. When a good or pious thought passed through the mind of anyone it was misrepresented in the glass. and then how the demon laughedat his cunning invention. All who went to the demon's school for hekept a school talked everywhere of the wonders they had seen, anddeclared that people could now, for the first time, see what the worldand mankind were really like. They carried the glass about everywhere,till at last there was not a land nor a people who had not been lookedat through this distorted mirror. They wanted even to fly with it upto heaven to see the angels, but the higher they flew the moreslippery the glass became, and they could scarcely hold it, till atlast it slipped from their hands, fell to the earth, and was brokeninto millions of pieces. But now the looking glass caused moreunhappiness than ever, for some of the fragments were not so largeas a grain of sand, and they flew about the world into everycountry. When one of these tiny atoms flew into a person's eye, itstuck there unknown to him, and from that moment he saw everythingthrough a distorted medium, or could see only the worst side of whathe looked at, for even the smallest fragment retained the same powerwhich had belonged to the whole mirror. Some few persons even got afragment of the looking glass in their hearts, and this was veryterrible, for their hearts became cold like a lump of ice. A few ofthe pieces were so large that they could be used as window panes. itwould have been a sad thing to look at our friends through them. Otherpieces were made into spectacles. this was dreadful for those who worethem, for they could see nothing either rightly or justly. At all thisthe wicked demon laughed till his sides shook it tickled him so tosee the mischief he had done. There were still a number of theselittle fragments of glass floating about in the air, and now you shallhear what happened with one of them.SECOND STORYA LITTLE BOY AND A LITTLE GIRLIn a large town, full of houses and people, there is not roomfor everybody to have even a little garden, therefore they are obligedto be satisfied with a few flowers in flower pots. In one of theselarge towns lived two poor children who had a garden somethinglarger and better than a few flower pots. They were not brother andsister, but they loved each other almost as much as if they hadbeen. Their parents lived opposite to each other in two garrets, wherethe roofs of neighboring houses projected out towards each other andthe water pipe ran between them. In each house was a little window, sothat any one could step across the gutter from one window to theother. The parents of these children had each a large wooden box inwhich they cultivated kitchen herbs for their own use, and a littlerose bush in each box, which grew splendidly. Now after a while theparents decided to place these two boxes across the water pipe, sothat they reached from one window to the other and looked like twobanks of flowers. Sweet peas drooped over the boxes, and therose bushes shot forth long branches, which were trained round thewindows and clustered together almost like a triumphal arch ofleaves and flowers. The boxes were very high, and the children knewthey must not climb upon them, without permission, but they wereoften, however, allowed to step out together and sit upon their littlestools under the rose bushes, or play quietly. In winter all thispleasure came to an end, for the windows were sometimes quite frozenover. But then they would warm copper pennies on the stove, and holdthe warm pennies against the frozen pane. there would be very soon alittle round hole through which they could peep, and the soft brighteyes of the little boy and girl would beam through the hole at eachwindow as they looked at each other. Their names were Kay and Gerda.In summer they could be together with one jump from the window, but inwinter they had to go up and down the long staircase, and outthrough the snow before they could meet."See there are the white bees swarming," said Kay's oldgrandmother one day when it was snowing."Have they a queen bee?" asked the little boy, for he knew thatthe real bees had a queen."To be sure they have," said the grandmother. "She is flying therewhere the swarm is thickest. She is the largest of them all, and neverremains on the earth, but flies up to the dark clouds. Often atmidnight she flies through the streets of the town, and looks in atthe windows, then the ice freezes on the panes into wonderfulshapes, that look like flowers and castles.""Yes, I have seen them," said both the children, and they knewit must be true."Can the Snow Queen come in here?" asked the little girl."Only let her come," said the boy, "I'll set her on the stoveand then she'll melt."Then the grandmother smoothed his hair and told him some moretales. One evening, when little Kay was at home, half undressed, heclimbed on a chair by the window and peeped out through the littlehole. A few flakes of snow were falling, and one of them, ratherlarger than the rest, alighted on the edge of one of the flower boxes.This snow flake grew larger and larger, till at last it became thefigure of a woman, dressed in garments of white gauze, which lookedlike millions of starry snow flakes linked together. She was fairand beautiful, but made of ice shining and glittering ice. Stillshe was alive and her eyes sparkled like bright stars, but there wasneither peace nor rest in their glance. She nodded towards thewindow and waved her hand. The little boy was frightened and sprangfrom the chair. at the same moment it seemed as if a large bird flewby the window. On the following day there was a clear frost, andvery soon came the spring. The sun shone. the young green leaves burstforth. the swallows built their nests. windows were opened, and thechildren sat once more in the garden on the roof, high above all theother rooms. How beautiful the roses blossomed this summer. The littlegirl had learnt a hymn in which roses were spoken of, and then shethought of their own roses, and she sang the hymn to the little boy,and he sang too: "Roses bloom and cease to be,But we shall the Christ child see."Then the little ones held each other by the hand, and kissed theroses, and looked at the bright sunshine, and spoke to it as if theChrist child were there. Those were splendid summer days. Howbeautiful and fresh it was out among the rose bushes, which seemedas if they would never leave off blooming. One day Kay and Gerda satlooking at a book full of pictures of animals and birds, and then justas the clock in the church tower struck twelve, Kay said, "Oh,something has struck my heart!" and soon after, "There is something inmy eye."The little girl put her arm round his neck, and looked into hiseye, but she could see nothing."I think it is gone," he said. But it was not gone. it was oneof those bits of the looking glass that magic mirror, of which wehave spoken the ugly glass which made everything great and goodappear small and ugly, while all that was wicked and bad became morevisible, and every little fault could be plainly seen. Poor little Kayhad also received a small grain in his heart, which very quicklyturned to a lump of ice. He felt no more pain, but the glass was therestill. "Why do you cry?" said he at last. "it makes you look ugly.There is nothing the matter with me now. Oh, see!" he criedsuddenly, "that rose is worm eaten, and this one is quite crooked.After all they are ugly roses, just like the box in which they stand,"and then he kicked the boxes with his foot, and pulled off the tworoses."Kay, what are you doing?" cried the little girl. and then, whenhe saw how frightened she was, he tore off another rose, and jumpedthrough his own window away from little Gerda.When she afterwards brought out the picture book, he said, "It wasonly fit for babies in long clothes," and when grandmother told anystories, he would interrupt her with "but." or, when he could manageit, he would get behind her chair, put on a pair of spectacles, andimitate her very cleverly, to make people laugh. By and by he began tomimic the speech and gait of persons in the street. All that waspeculiar or disagreeable in a person he would imitate directly, andpeople said, "That boy will be very clever. he has a remarkablegenius." But it was the piece of glass in his eye, and the coldness inhis heart, that made him act like this. He would even tease littleGerda, who loved him with all her heart. His games, too, were quitedifferent. they were not so childish. One winter's day, when itsnowed, he brought out a burning glass, then he held out the tail ofhis blue coat, and let the snow flakes fall upon it. "Look in thisglass, Gerda," said he. and she saw how every flake of snow wasmagnified, and looked like a beautiful flower or a glittering star."Is it not clever?" said Kay, "and much more interesting thanlooking at real flowers. There is not a single fault in it, and thesnow flakes are quite perfect till they begin to melt."Soon after Kay made his appearance in large thick gloves, and withhis sledge at his back. He called up stairs to Gerda, "I've got toleave to go into the great square, where the other boys play andride." And away he went.In the great square, the boldest among the boys would often tietheir sledges to the country people's carts, and go with them a goodway. This was capital. But while they were all amusing themselves, andKay with them, a great sledge came by. it was painted white, and in itsat some one wrapped in a rough white fur, and wearing a white cap.The sledge drove twice round the square, and Kay fastened his ownlittle sledge to it, so that when it went away, he followed with it.It went faster and faster right through the next street, and thenthe person who drove turned round and nodded pleasantly to Kay, justas if they were acquainted with each other, but whenever Kay wished toloosen his little sledge the driver nodded again, so Kay sat still,and they drove out through the town gate. Then the snow began tofall so heavily that the little boy could not see a hand's breadthbefore him, but still they drove on. then he suddenly loosened thecord so that the large sled might go on without him, but it was ofno use, his little carriage held fast, and away they went like thewind. Then he called out loudly, but nobody heard him, while thesnow beat upon him, and the sledge flew onwards. Every now and then itgave a jump as if it were going over hedges and ditches. The boy wasfrightened, and tried to say a prayer, but he could remember nothingbut the multiplication table.The snow flakes became larger and larger, till they appearedlike great white chickens. All at once they sprang on one side, thegreat sledge stopped, and the person who had driven it rose up. Thefur and the cap, which were made entirely of snow, fell off, and hesaw a lady, tall and white, it was the Snow Queen."We have driven well," said she, "but why do you tremble? here,creep into my warm fur." Then she seated him beside her in the sledge,and as she wrapped the fur round him he felt as if he were sinkinginto a snow drift."Are you still cold," she asked, as she kissed him on theforehead. The kiss was colder than ice. it went quite through to hisheart, which was already almost a lump of ice. he felt as if he weregoing to die, but only for a moment. he soon seemed quite wellagain, and did not notice the cold around him."My sledge! don't forget my sledge," was his first thought, andthen he looked and saw that it was bound fast to one of the whitechickens, which flew behind him with the sledge at its back. TheSnow Queen kissed little Kay again, and by this time he hadforgotten little Gerda, his grandmother, and all at home."Now you must have no more kisses," she said, "or I should kissyou to death."Kay looked at her, and saw that she was so beautiful, he could notimagine a more lovely and intelligent face. she did not now seem to bemade of ice, as when he had seen her through his window, and she hadnodded to him. In his eyes she was perfect, and she did not feel atall afraid. He told her he could do mental arithmetic, as far asfractions, and that he knew the number of square miles and thenumber of inhabitants in the country. And she always smiled so that hethought he did not know enough yet, and she looked round the vastexpanse as she flew higher and higher with him upon a black cloud,while the storm blew and howled as if it were singing old songs.They flew over woods and lakes, over sea and land. below them roaredthe wild wind. the wolves howled and the snow crackled. over them flewthe black screaming crows, and above all shone the moon, clear andbright, and so Kay passed through the long winter's night, and by dayhe slept at the feet of the Snow Queen.THIRD STORYTHE FLOWER GARDEN OF THE WOMAN WHO COULD CONJUREBut how fared little Gerda during Kay's absence? What had becomeof him, no one knew, nor could any one give the slightest information,excepting the boys, who said that he had tied his sledge to anothervery large one, which had driven through the street, and out at thetown gate. Nobody knew where it went. many tears were shed for him,and little Gerda wept bitterly for a long time. She said she knew hemust be dead. that he was drowned in the river which flowed close bythe school. Oh, indeed those long winter days were very dreary. But atlast spring came, with warm sunshine. "Kay is dead and gone," saidlittle Gerda."I don't believe it," said the sunshine."He is dead and gone," she said to the sparrows."We don't believe it," they replied. and at last little Gerdabegan to doubt it herself. "I will put on my new red shoes," shesaid one morning, "those that Kay has never seen, and then I will godown to the river, and ask for him." It was quite early when shekissed her old grandmother, who was still asleep. then she put onher red shoes, and went quite alone out of the town gates toward theriver. "Is it true that you have taken my little playmate away fromme?" said she to the river. "I will give you my red shoes if youwill give him back to me." And it seemed as if the waves nodded to herin a strange manner. Then she took off her red shoes, which sheliked better than anything else, and threw them both into the river,but they fell near the bank, and the little waves carried them back tothe land, just as if the river would not take from her what sheloved best, because they could not give her back little Kay. But shethought the shoes had not been thrown out far enough. Then she creptinto a boat that lay among the reeds, and threw the shoes again fromthe farther end of the boat into the water, but it was not fastened.And her movement sent it gliding away from the land. When she saw thisshe hastened to reach the end of the boat, but before she could soit was more than a yard from the bank, and drifting away faster thanever. Then little Gerda was very much frightened, and began to cry,but no one heard her except the sparrows, and they could not carry herto land, but they flew along by the shore, and sang, as if tocomfort her, "Here we are! Here we are!" The boat floated with thestream. little Gerda sat quite still with only her stockings on herfeet. the red shoes floated after her, but she could not reach thembecause the boat kept so much in advance. The banks on each side ofthe river were very pretty. There were beautiful flowers, old trees,sloping fields, in which cows and sheep were grazing, but not a man tobe seen. Perhaps the river will carry me to little Kay, thought Gerda,and then she became more cheerful, and raised her head, and lookedat the beautiful green banks. and so the boat sailed on for hours.At length she came to a large cherry orchard, in which stood a smallred house with strange red and blue windows. It had also a thatchedroof, and outside were two wooden soldiers, that presented arms to heras she sailed past. Gerda called out to them, for she thought theywere alive, but of course they did not answer. and as the boat driftednearer to the shore, she saw what they really were. Then Gerdacalled still louder, and there came a very old woman out of the house,leaning on a crutch. She wore a large hat to shade her from the sun,and on it were painted all sorts of pretty flowers. "You poor littlechild," said the old woman, "how did you manage to come all thisdistance into the wide world on such a rapid rolling stream?" And thenthe old woman walked in the water, seized the boat with her crutch,drew it to land, and lifted Gerda out. And Gerda was glad to feelherself on dry ground, although she was rather afraid of the strangeold woman. "Come and tell me who you are," said she, "and how came youhere."Then Gerda told her everything, while the old woman shook herhead, and said, "Hem hem." and when she had finished, Gerda asked ifshe had not seen little Kay, and the old woman told her he had notpassed by that way, but he very likely would come. So she told Gerdanot to be sorrowful, but to taste the cherries and look at theflowers. they were better than any picture book, for each of themcould tell a story. Then she took Gerda by the hand and led her intothe little house, and the old woman closed the door. The windowswere very high, and as the panes were red, blue, and yellow, thedaylight shone through them in all sorts of singular colors. On thetable stood beautiful cherries, and Gerda had permission to eat asmany as she would. While she was eating them the old woman combedout her long flaxen ringlets with a golden comb, and the glossycurls hung down on each side of the little round pleasant face,which looked fresh and blooming as a rose. "I have long been wishingfor a dear little maiden like you," said the old woman, "and now youmust stay with me, and see how happily we shall live together." Andwhile she went on combing little Gerda's hair, she thought less andless about her adopted brother Kay, for the old woman could conjure,although she was not a wicked witch. she conjured only a little forher own amusement, and now, because she wanted to keep Gerda.Therefore she went into the garden, and stretched out her crutchtowards all the rose trees, beautiful though they were. and theyimmediately sunk into the dark earth, so that no one could tellwhere they had once stood. The old woman was afraid that if littleGerda saw roses she would think of those at home, and then rememberlittle Kay, and run away. Then she took Gerda into the flower garden.How fragrant and beautiful it was! Every flower that could bethought of for every season of the year was here in full bloom.no picture book could have more beautiful colors. Gerda jumpedfor joy, and played till the sun went down behind the tallcherry trees. then she slept in an elegant bed with red silkpillows, embroidered with colored violets. and then she dreamed aspleasantly as a queen on her wedding day. The next day, and for manydays after, Gerda played with the flowers in the warm sunshine. Sheknew every flower, and yet, although there were so many of them, itseemed as if one were missing, but which it was she could not tell.One day, however, as she sat looking at the old woman's hat with thepainted flowers on it, she saw that the prettiest of them all was arose. The old woman had forgotten to take it from her hat when shemade all the roses sink into the earth. But it is difficult to keepthe thoughts together in everything. one little mistake upsets all ourarrangements."What, are there no roses here?" cried Gerda. and she ran out intothe garden, and examined all the beds, and searched and searched.There was not one to be found. Then she sat down and wept, and hertears fell just on the place where one of the rose trees had sunkdown. The warm tears moistened the earth, and the rose tree sproutedup at once, as blooming as when it had sunk. and Gerda embraced it andkissed the roses, and thought of the beautiful roses at home, and,with them, of little Kay."Oh, how I have been detained!" said the little maiden, "Iwanted to seek for little Kay. Do you know where he is?" she asked theroses. "do you think he is dead?"And the roses answered, "No, he is not dead. We have been in theground where all the dead lie. but Kay is not there.""Thank you," said little Gerda, and then she went to the otherflowers, and looked into their little cups, and asked, "Do you knowwhere little Kay is?" But each flower, as it stood in the sunshine,dreamed only of its own little fairy tale of history. Not one knewanything of Kay. Gerda heard many stories from the flowers, as sheasked them one after another about him.And what, said the tiger lily? "Hark, do you hear the drum? 'turn,turn,' there are only two notes, always, 'turn, turn.' Listento the women's song of mourning! Hear the cry of the priest! Inher long red robe stands the Hindoo widow by the funeral pile. Theflames rise around her as she places herself on the dead body of herhusband. but the Hindoo woman is thinking of the living one in thatcircle. of him, her son, who lighted those flames. Those shiningeyes trouble her heart more painfully than the flames which willsoon consume her body to ashes. Can the fire of the heart beextinguished in the flames of the funeral pile?""I don't understand that at all," said little Gerda."That is my story," said the tiger lily.What, says the convolvulus? "Near yonder narrow road stands an oldknight's castle. thick ivy creeps over the old ruined walls, leaf overleaf, even to the balcony, in which stands a beautiful maiden. Shebends over the balustrades, and looks up the road. No rose on its stemis fresher than she. no apple blossom, wafted by the wind, floats morelightly than she moves. Her rich silk rustles as she bends over andexclaims, 'Will he not come?'"Is it Kay you mean?" asked Gerda."I am only speaking of a story of my dream," replied the flower.What, said the little snow drop? "Between two trees a rope ishanging. there is a piece of board upon it. it is a swing. Twopretty little girls, in dresses white as snow, and with long greenribbons fluttering from their hats, are sitting upon it swinging.Their brother who is taller than they are, stands in the swing. he hasone arm round the rope, to steady himself. in one hand he holds alittle bowl, and in the other a clay pipe. he is blowing bubbles. Asthe swing goes on, the bubbles fly upward, reflecting the mostbeautiful varying colors. The last still hangs from the bowl of thepipe, and sways in the wind. On goes the swing. and then a littleblack dog comes running up. He is almost as light as the bubble, andhe raises himself on his hind legs, and wants to be taken into theswing. but it does not stop, and the dog falls. then he barks and getsangry. The children stoop towards him, and the bubble bursts. Aswinging plank, a light sparkling foam picture, that is my story.""It may be all very pretty what you are telling me," said littleGerda, "but you speak so mournfully, and you do not mention little Kayat all."What do the hyacinths say? "There were three beautiful sisters,fair and delicate. The dress of one was red, of the second blue, andof the third pure white. Hand in hand they danced in the brightmoonlight, by the calm lake. but they were human beings, not fairyelves. The sweet fragrance attracted them, and they disappeared in thewood. here the fragrance became stronger. Three coffins, in whichlay the three beautiful maidens, glided from the thickest part ofthe forest across the lake. The fire flies flew lightly over them,like little floating torches. Do the dancing maidens sleep, or arethey dead? The scent of the flower says that they are corpses. Theevening bell tolls their knell.""You make me quite sorrowful," said little Gerda. "your perfume isso strong, you make me think of the dead maidens. Ah! is little Kayreally dead then? The roses have been in the earth, and they say no.""Cling, clang," tolled the hyacinth bells. "We are not tolling forlittle Kay. we do not know him. We sing our song, the only one weknow."Then Gerda went to the buttercups that were glittering amongst thebright green leaves."You are little bright suns," said Gerda. "tell me if you knowwhere I can find my play fellow."And the buttercups sparkled gayly, and looked again at Gerda. Whatsong could the buttercups sing? It was not about Kay."The bright warm sun shone on a little court, on the first warmday of spring. His bright beams rested on the white walls of theneighboring house. and close by bloomed the first yellow flower of theseason, glittering like gold in the sun's warm ray. An old woman satin her arm chair at the house door, and her granddaughter, a poorand pretty servant maid came to see her for a short visit. When shekissed her grandmother there was gold everywhere: the gold of theheart in that holy kiss. it was a golden morning. there was gold inthe beaming sunlight, gold in the leaves of the lowly flower, and onthe lips of the maiden. There, that is my story," said the buttercup."My poor old grandmother!" sighed Gerda. "she is longing to seeme, and grieving for me as she did for little Kay. but I shall soon gohome now, and take little Kay with me. It is no use asking theflowers. they know only their own songs, and can give me noinformation."And then she tucked up her little dress, that she might runfaster, but the narcissus caught her by the leg as she was jumpingover it. so she stopped and looked at the tall yellow flower, andsaid, "Perhaps you may know something."Then she stooped down quite close to the flower, and listened. andwhat did he say?"I can see myself, I can see myself," said the narcissus. "Oh, howsweet is my perfume! Up in a little room with a bow window, stands alittle dancing girl, half undressed. she stands sometimes on oneleg, and sometimes on both, and looks as if she would tread thewhole world under her feet. She is nothing but a delusion. She ispouring water out of a tea pot on a piece of stuff which she holdsin her hand. it is her bodice. 'Cleanliness is a good thing,' shesays. Her white dress hangs on a peg. it has also been washed in thetea pot, and dried on the roof. She puts it on, and ties asaffron colored handkerchief round her neck, which makes the dresslook whiter. See how she stretches out her legs, as if she wereshowing off on a stem. I can see myself, I can see myself.""What do I care for all that," said Gerda, "you need not tell mesuch stuff." And then she ran to the other end of the garden. The doorwas fastened, but she pressed against the rusty latch, and it gaveway. The door sprang open, and little Gerda ran out with bare feetinto the wide world. She looked back three times, but no one seemed tobe following her. At last she could run no longer, so she sat downto rest on a great stone, and when she looked round she saw that thesummer was over, and autumn very far advanced. She had known nothingof this in the beautiful garden, where the sun shone and the flowersgrew all the year round."Oh, how I have wasted my time?" said little Gerda. "it is autumn.I must not rest any longer," and she rose up to go on. But herlittle feet were wounded and sore, and everything around her looked socold and bleak. The long willow leaves were quite yellow. Thedew drops fell like water, leaf after leaf dropped from the trees, thesloe thorn alone still bore fruit, but the sloes were sour, and setthe teeth on edge. Oh, how dark and weary the whole world appeared!FOURTH STORYTHE PRINCE AND PRINCESSGerda was obliged to rest again, and just opposite the place whereshe sat, she saw a great crow come hopping across the snow toward her.He stood looking at her for some time, and then he wagged his head andsaid, "Caw, caw. good day, good day." He pronounced the words asplainly as he could, because he meant to be kind to the little girl.and then he asked her where she was going all alone in the wide world.The word alone Gerda understood very well, and knew how much itexpressed. So then she told the crow the whole story of her life andadventures, and asked him if he had seen little Kay.The crow nodded his head very gravely, and said, "Perhaps Ihave it may be.""No! Do you think you have?" cried little Gerda, and she kissedthe crow, and hugged him almost to death with joy."Gently, gently," said the crow. "I believe I know. I think it maybe little Kay. but he has certainly forgotten you by this time for theprincess.""Does he live with a princess?" asked Gerda."Yes, listen," replied the crow, "but it is so difficult tospeak your language. If you understand the crows' language then Ican explain it better. Do you?""No, I have never learnt it," said Gerda, "but my grandmotherunderstands it, and used to speak it to me. I wish I had learnt it.""It does not matter," answered the crow. "I will explain as wellas I can, although it will be very badly done." and he told her whathe had heard. "In this kingdom where we now are," said he, "therelives a princess, who is so wonderfully clever that she has read allthe newspapers in the world, and forgotten them too, although she isso clever. A short time ago, as she was sitting on her throne, whichpeople say is not such an agreeable seat as is often supposed, shebegan to sing a song which commences in these words:'Why should I not be married?''Why not indeed?' said she, and so she determined to marry if shecould find a husband who knew what to say when he was spoken to, andnot one who could only look grand, for that was so tiresome. Thenshe assembled all her court ladies together at the beat of the drum,and when they heard of her intentions they were very much pleased. 'Weare so glad to hear it,' said they, we were talking about it ourselvesthe other day.' You may believe that every word I tell you is true,"said the crow, "for I have a tame sweetheart who goes freely about thepalace, and she told me all this."Of course his sweetheart was a crow, for "birds of a feather flocktogether," and one crow always chooses another crow."Newspapers were published immediately, with a border of hearts,and the initials of the princess among them. They gave notice thatevery young man who was handsome was free to visit the castle andspeak with the princess. and those who could reply loud enough to beheard when spoken to, were to make themselves quite at home at thepalace. but the one who spoke best would be chosen as a husband forthe princess. Yes, yes, you may believe me, it is all as true as I sithere," said the crow. "The people came in crowds. There was a greatdeal of crushing and running about, but no one succeeded either on thefirst or second day. They could all speak very well while they wereoutside in the streets, but when they entered the palace gates, andsaw the guards in silver uniforms, and the footmen in their goldenlivery on the staircase, and the great halls lighted up, they becamequite confused. And when they stood before the throne on which theprincess sat, they could do nothing but repeat the last words shehad said. and she had no particular wish to hear her own words overagain. It was just as if they had all taken something to make themsleepy while they were in the palace, for they did not recoverthemselves nor speak till they got back again into the street. Therewas quite a long line of them reaching from the town gate to thepalace. I went myself to see them," said the crow. "They were hungryand thirsty, for at the palace they did not get even a glass of water.Some of the wisest had taken a few slices of bread and butter withthem, but they did not share it with their neighbors. they thoughtif they went in to the princess looking hungry, there would be abetter chance for themselves.""But Kay! tell me about little Kay!" said Gerda, "was he amongstthe crowd?""Stop a bit, we are just coming to him. It was on the third day,there came marching cheerfully along to the palace a little personage,without horses or carriage, his eyes sparkling like yours. he hadbeautiful long hair, but his clothes were very poor.""That was Kay!" said Gerda joyfully. "Oh, then I have foundhim." and she clapped her hands."He had a little knapsack on his back," added the crow."No, it must have been his sledge," said Gerda. "for he wentaway with it.""It may have been so," said the crow. "I did not look at it veryclosely. But I know from my tame sweetheart that he passed through thepalace gates, saw the guards in their silver uniform, and the servantsin their liveries of gold on the stairs, but he was not in the leastembarrassed. 'It must be very tiresome to stand on the stairs,' hesaid. 'I prefer to go in.' The rooms were blazing with light.Councillors and ambassadors walked about with bare feet, carryinggolden vessels. it was enough to make any one feel serious. Hisboots creaked loudly as he walked, and yet he was not at all uneasy.""It must be Kay," said Gerda, "I know he had new boots on, Ihave heard them creak in grandmother's room.""They really did creak," said the crow, "yet he went boldly upto the princess herself, who was sitting on a pearl as large as aspinning wheel, and all the ladies of the court were present withtheir maids, and all the cavaliers with their servants. and each ofthe maids had another maid to wait upon her, and the cavaliers'servants had their own servants, as well as a page each. They allstood in circles round the princess, and the nearer they stood tothe door, the prouder they looked. The servants' pages, who alwayswore slippers, could hardly be looked at, they held themselves up soproudly by the door.""It must be quite awful," said little Gerda, "but did Kay winthe princess?""If I had not been a crow," said he, "I would have married hermyself, although I am engaged. He spoke just as well as I do, when Ispeak the crows' language, so I heard from my tame sweetheart. Hewas quite free and agreeable and said he had not come to woo theprincess, but to hear her wisdom. and he was as pleased with her asshe was with him.""Oh, certainly that was Kay," said Gerda, "he was so clever. hecould work mental arithmetic and fractions. Oh, will you take me tothe palace?""It is very easy to ask that," replied the crow, "but how are weto manage it? However, I will speak about it to my tame sweetheart,and ask her advice. for I must tell you it will be very difficult togain permission for a little girl like you to enter the palace.""Oh, yes. but I shall gain permission easily," said Gerda, "forwhen Kay hears that I am here, he will come out and fetch me inimmediately.""Wait for me here by the palings," said the crow, wagging his headas he flew away.It was late in the evening before the crow returned. "Caw, caw,"he said, "she sends you greeting, and here is a little roll which shetook from the kitchen for you. there is plenty of bread there, and shethinks you must be hungry. It is not possible for you to enter thepalace by the front entrance. The guards in silver uniform and theservants in gold livery would not allow it. But do not cry, we willmanage to get you in. my sweetheart knows a little back staircase thatleads to the sleeping apartments, and she knows where to find thekey."Then they went into the garden through the great avenue, where theleaves were falling one after another, and they could see the light inthe palace being put out in the same manner. And the crow led littleGerda to the back door, which stood ajar. Oh! how little Gerda's heartbeat with anxiety and longing. it was just as if she were going todo something wrong, and yet she only wanted to know where little Kaywas. "It must be he," she thought, "with those clear eyes, and thatlong hair." She could fancy she saw him smiling at her, as he usedto at home, when they sat among the roses. He would certainly beglad to see her, and to hear what a long distance she had come for hissake, and to know how sorry they had been at home because he did notcome back. Oh what joy and yet fear she felt! They were now on thestairs, and in a small closet at the top a lamp was burning. In themiddle of the floor stood the tame crow, turning her head from side toside, and gazing at Gerda, who curtseyed as her grandmother had taughther to do."My betrothed has spoken so very highly of you, my little lady,"said the tame crow, "your life history, Vita, as it may be called,is very touching. If you will take the lamp I will walk before you. Wewill go straight along this way, then we shall meet no one.""It seems to me as if somebody were behind us," said Gerda, assomething rushed by her like a shadow on the wall, and then horseswith flying manes and thin legs, hunters, ladies and gentlemen onhorseback, glided by her, like shadows on the wall."They are only dreams," said the crow, "they are coming to fetchthe thoughts of the great people out hunting.""All the better, for we shall be able to look at them in theirbeds more safely. I hope that when you rise to honor and favor, youwill show a grateful heart.""You may be quite sure of that," said the crow from the forest.They now came into the first hall, the walls of which were hungwith rose colored satin, embroidered with artificial flowers. Here thedreams again flitted by them but so quickly that Gerda could notdistinguish the royal persons. Each hall appeared more splendid thanthe last, it was enought to bewilder any one. At length they reached abedroom. The ceiling was like a great palm tree, with glass leavesof the most costly crystal, and over the centre of the floor two beds,each resembling a lily, hung from a stem of gold. One, in which theprincess lay, was white, the other was red. and in this Gerda had toseek for little Kay. She pushed one of the red leaves aside, and saw alittle brown neck. Oh, that must be Kay! She called his name out quiteloud, and held the lamp over him. The dreams rushed back into the roomon horseback. He woke, and turned his head round, it was not littleKay! The prince was only like him in the neck, still he was youngand pretty. Then the princess peeped out of her white lily bed, andasked what was the matter. Then little Gerda wept and told herstory, and all that the crows had done to help her."You poor child," said the prince and princess. then theypraised the crows, and said they were not angry for what they haddone, but that it must not happen again, and this time they shouldbe rewarded."Would you like to have your freedom?" asked the princess, "orwould you prefer to be raised to the position of court crows, with allthat is left in the kitchen for yourselves?"Then both the crows bowed, and begged to have a fixed appointment,for they thought of their old age, and said it would be so comfortableto feel that they had provision for their old days, as they called it.And then the prince got out of his bed, and gave it up to Gerda, hecould do no more. and she lay down. She folded her little hands, andthought, "How good everyone is to me, men and animals too." then sheclosed her eyes and fell into a sweet sleep. All the dreams cameflying back again to her, and they looked like angels, and one of themdrew a little sledge, on which sat Kay, and nodded to her. But allthis was only a dream, and vanished as soon as she awoke.The following day she was dressed from head to foot in silk andvelvet, and they invited her to stay at the palace for a few days, andenjoy herself, but she only begged for a pair of boots, and a littlecarriage, and a horse to draw it, so that she might go into the wideworld to seek for Kay. And she obtained, not only boots, but also amuff, and she was neatly dressed. and when she was ready to go, there,at the door, she found a coach made of pure gold, with thecoat of arms of the prince and princess shining upon it like a star,and the coachman, footman, and outriders all wearing golden crownson their heads. The prince and princess themselves helped her into thecoach, and wished her success. The forest crow, who was now married,accompanied her for the first three miles. he sat by Gerda's side,as he could not bear riding backwards. The tame crow stood in thedoor way flapping her wings. She could not go with them, because shehad been suffering from headache ever since the new appointment, nodoubt from eating too much. The coach was well stored with sweetcakes, and under the seat were fruit and gingerbread nuts."Farewell, farewell," cried the prince and princess, and littleGerda wept, and the crow wept. and then, after a few miles, the crowalso said "Farewell," and this was the saddest parting. However, heflew to a tree, and stood flapping his black wings as long as he couldsee the coach, which glittered in the bright sunshine.FIFTH STORYLITTLE ROBBER GIRLThe coach drove on through a thick forest, where it lighted up theway like a torch, and dazzled the eyes of some robbers, who couldnot bear to let it pass them unmolested."It is gold! it is gold!" cried they, rushing forward, and seizingthe horses. Then they struck the little jockeys, the coachman, and thefootman dead, and pulled little Gerda out of the carriage."She is fat and pretty, and she has been fed with the kernels ofnuts," said the old robber woman, who had a long beard and eyebrowsthat hung over her eyes. "She is as good as a little lamb. how niceshe will taste!" and as she said this, she drew forth a shining knife,that glittered horribly. "Oh!" screamed the old woman the same moment.for her own daughter, who held her back, had bitten her in the ear.She was a wild and naughty girl, and the mother called her an uglything, and had not time to kill Gerda."She shall play with me," said the little robber girl. "sheshall give me her muff and her pretty dress, and sleep with me in mybed." And then she bit her mother again, and made her spring in theair, and jump about. and all the robbers laughed, and said, "See howshe is dancing with her young cub.""I will have a ride in the coach," said the little robber girl.and she would have her own way. for she was so self willed andobstinate.She and Gerda seated themselves in the coach, and drove away, overstumps and stones, into the depths of the forest. The littlerobber girl was about the same size as Gerda, but stronger. she hadbroader shoulders and a darker skin. her eyes were quite black, andshe had a mournful look. She clasped little Gerda round the waist, andsaid, "They shall not kill you as long as you don't make us vexed withyou. I suppose you are a princess.""No," said Gerda. and then she told her all her history, and howfond she was of little Kay.The robber girl looked earnestly at her, nodded her head slightly,and said, "They sha'nt kill you, even if I do get angry with you.for I will do it myself." And then she wiped Gerda's eyes, and stuckher own hands in the beautiful muff which was so soft and warm.The coach stopped in the courtyard of a robber's castle, the wallsof which were cracked from top to bottom. Ravens and crows flew in andout of the holes and crevices, while great bulldogs, either of whichlooked as if it could swallow a man, were jumping about. but they werenot allowed to bark. In the large and smoky hall a bright fire wasburning on the stone floor. There was no chimney. so the smoke went upto the ceiling, and found a way out for itself. Soup was boiling ina large cauldron, and hares and rabbits were roasting on the spit."You shall sleep with me and all my little animals to night," saidthe robber girl, after they had had something to eat and drink. So shetook Gerda to a corner of the hall, where some straw and carpetswere laid down. Above them, on laths and perches, were more than ahundred pigeons, who all seemed to be asleep, although they movedslightly when the two little girls came near them. "These all belongto me," said the robber girl. and she seized the nearest to her,held it by the feet, and shook it till it flapped its wings. "Kissit," cried she, flapping it in Gerda's face. "There sit thewood pigeons," continued she, pointing to a number of laths and a cagewhich had been fixed into the walls, near one of the openings. "Bothrascals would fly away directly, if they were not closely locked up.And here is my old sweetheart 'Ba.'" and she dragged out a reindeerby the horn. he wore a bright copper ring round his neck, and was tiedup. "We are obliged to hold him tight too, or else he would run awayfrom us also. I tickle his neck every evening with my sharp knife,which frightens him very much." And then the robber girl drew a longknife from a chink in the wall, and let it slide gently over thereindeer's neck. The poor animal began to kick, and the littlerobber girl laughed, and pulled down Gerda into bed with her."Will you have that knife with you while you are asleep?" askedGerda, looking at it in great fright."I always sleep with the knife by me," said the robber girl. "Noone knows what may happen. But now tell me again all about little Kay,and why you went out into the world."Then Gerda repeated her story over again, while the wood pigeonsin the cage over her cooed, and the other pigeons slept. The littlerobber girl put one arm across Gerda's neck, and held the knife in theother, and was soon fast asleep and snoring. But Gerda could not closeher eyes at all. she knew not whether she was to live or die. Therobbers sat round the fire, singing and drinking, and the old womanstumbled about. It was a terrible sight for a little girl to witness.Then the wood pigeons said, "Coo, coo. we have seen little Kay.A white fowl carried his sledge, and he sat in the carriage of theSnow Queen, which drove through the wood while we were lying in ournest. She blew upon us, and all the young ones died excepting ustwo. Coo, coo.""What are you saying up there?" cried Gerda. "Where was the SnowQueen going? Do you know anything about it?""She was most likely travelling to Lapland, where there isalways snow and ice. Ask the reindeer that is fastened up there with arope.""Yes, there is always snow and ice," said the reindeer. "and it isa glorious place. you can leap and run about freely on the sparklingice plains. The Snow Queen has her summer tent there, but her strongcastle is at the North Pole, on an island called Spitzbergen.""Oh, Kay, little Kay!" sighed Gerda."Lie still," said the robber girl, "or I shall run my knife intoyour body."In the morning Gerda told her all that the wood pigeons hadsaid. and the little robber girl looked quite serious, and noddedher head, and said, "That is all talk, that is all talk. Do you knowwhere Lapland is?" she asked the reindeer."Who should know better than I do?" said the animal, while hiseyes sparkled. "I was born and brought up there, and used to run aboutthe snow covered plains.""Now listen," said the robber girl. "all our men are gone away, onlymother is here, and here she will stay. but at noon she alwaysdrinks out of a great bottle, and afterwards sleeps for a littlewhile. and then, I'll do something for you." Then she jumped out ofbed, clasped her mother round the neck, and pulled her by the beard,crying, "My own little nanny goat, good morning." Then her motherfilliped her nose till it was quite red. yet she did it all for love.When the mother had drunk out of the bottle, and was gone tosleep, the little robber maiden went to the reindeer, and said, "Ishould like very much to tickle your neck a few times more with myknife, for it makes you look so funny. but never mind, I will untieyour cord, and set you free, so that you may run away to Lapland.but you must make good use of your legs, and carry this littlemaiden to the castle of the Snow Queen, where her play fellow is.You have heard what she told me, for she spoke loud enough, and youwere listening."Then the reindeer jumped for joy. and the little robber girllifted Gerda on his back, and had the forethought to tie her on, andeven to give her her own little cushion to sit on."Here are your fur boots for you," said she. "for it will bevery cold. but I must keep the muff. it is so pretty. However, youshall not be frozen for the want of it. here are my mother's largewarm mittens. they will reach up to your elbows. Let me put them on.There, now your hands look just like my mother's."But Gerda wept for joy."I don't like to see you fret," said the little robber girl."you ought to look quite happy now. and here are two loaves and a ham,so that you need not starve." These were fastened on the reindeer, andthen the little robber maiden opened the door, coaxed in all the greatdogs, and then cut the string with which the reindeer was fastened,with her sharp knife, and said, "Now run, but mind you take goodcare of the little girl." And then Gerda stretched out her hand,with the great mitten on it, towards the little robber girl, and said,"Farewell," and away flew the reindeer, over stumps and stones,through the great forest, over marshes and plains, as quickly as hecould. The wolves howled, and the ravens screamed. while up in the skyquivered red lights like flames of fire. "There are my old northernlights," said the reindeer. "see how they flash." And he ran on dayand night still faster and faster, but the loaves and the ham were alleaten by the time they reached Lapland.SIXTH STORYTHE LAPLAND WOMAN AND THE FINLAND WOMANThey stopped at a little hut. it was very mean looking. the roofsloped nearly down to the ground, and the door was so low that thefamily had to creep in on their hands and knees, when they went in andout. There was no one at home but an old Lapland woman, who wascooking fish by the light of a train oil lamp. The reindeer told herall about Gerda's story, after having first told his own, which seemedto him the most important, but Gerda was so pinched with the cold thatshe could not speak. "Oh, you poor things," said the Lapland woman,"you have a long way to go yet. You must travel more than a hundredmiles farther, to Finland. The Snow Queen lives there now, and sheburns Bengal lights every evening. I will write a few words on a driedstock fish, for I have no paper, and you can take it from me to theFinland woman who lives there. she can give you better informationthan I can." So when Gerda was warmed, and had taken something toeat and drink, the woman wrote a few words on the dried fish, and toldGerda to take great care of it. Then she tied her again on thereindeer, and he set off at full speed. Flash, flash, went thebeautiful blue northern lights in the air the whole night long. And atlength they reached Finland, and knocked at the chimney of the Finlandwoman's hut, for it had no door above the ground. They crept in, butit was so terribly hot inside that that woman wore scarcely anyclothes. she was small and very dirty looking. She loosened littleGerda's dress, and took off the fur boots and the mittens, or Gerdawould have been unable to bear the heat. and then she placed a pieceof ice on the reindeer's head, and read what was written on thedried fish. After she had read it three times, she knew it by heart,so she popped the fish into the soup saucepan, as she knew it was goodto eat, and she never wasted anything. The reindeer told his own storyfirst, and then little Gerda's, and the Finlander twinkled with herclever eyes, but she said nothing. "You are so clever," said thereindeer. "I know you can tie all the winds of the world with apiece of twine. If a sailor unties one knot, he has a fair wind.when he unties the second, it blows hard. but if the third andfourth are loosened, then comes a storm, which will root up wholeforests. Cannot you give this little maiden something which willmake her as strong as twelve men, to overcome the Snow Queen?""The Power of twelve men!" said the Finland woman. "that wouldbe of very little use." But she went to a shelf and took down andunrolled a large skin, on which were inscribed wonderful characters,and she read till the perspiration ran down from her forehead. But thereindeer begged so hard for little Gerda, and Gerda looked at theFinland woman with such beseeching tearful eyes, that her own eyesbegan to twinkle again. so she drew the reindeer into a corner, andwhispered to him while she laid a fresh piece of ice on his head,"Little Kay is really with the Snow Queen, but he finds everythingthere so much to his taste and his liking, that he believes it isthe finest place in the world. but this is because he has a piece ofbroken glass in his heart, and a little piece of glass in his eye.These must be taken out, or he will never be a human being again,and the Snow Queen will retain her power over him.""But can you not give little Gerda something to help her toconquer this power?""I can give her no greater power than she has already," said thewoman. "don't you see how strong that is? How men and animals areobliged to serve her, and how well she has got through the world,barefooted as she is. She cannot receive any power from me greaterthan she now has, which consists in her own purity and innocence ofheart. If she cannot herself obtain access to the Snow Queen, andremove the glass fragments from little Kay, we can do nothing tohelp her. Two miles from here the Snow Queen's garden begins. youcan carry the little girl so far, and set her down by the large bushwhich stands in the snow, covered with red berries. Do not staygossiping, but come back here as quickly as you can." Then the Finlandwoman lifted little Gerda upon the reindeer, and he ran away withher as quickly as he could."Oh, I have forgotten my boots and my mittens," cried littleGerda, as soon as she felt the cutting cold, but the reindeer darednot stop, so he ran on till he reached the bush with the redberries. here he set Gerda down, and he kissed her, and the greatbright tears trickled over the animal's cheeks. then he left her andran back as fast as he could.There stood poor Gerda, without shoes, without gloves, in themidst of cold, dreary, ice bound Finland. She ran forwards asquickly as she could, when a whole regiment of snow flakes cameround her. they did not, however, fall from the sky, which was quiteclear and glittering with the northern lights. The snow flakes ranalong the ground, and the nearer they came to her, the larger theyappeared. Gerda remembered how large and beautiful they looked throughthe burning glass. But these were really larger, and much moreterrible, for they were alive, and were the guards of the SnowQueen, and had the strangest shapes. Some were like greatporcupines, others like twisted serpents with their heads stretchingout, and some few were like little fat bears with their hair bristled.but all were dazzlingly white, and all were living snow flakes. Thenlittle Gerda repeated the Lord's Prayer, and the cold was so greatthat she could see her own breath come out of her mouth like steamas she uttered the words. The steam appeared to increase, as shecontinued her prayer, till it took the shape of little angels who grewlarger the moment they touched the earth. They all wore helmets ontheir heads, and carried spears and shields. Their number continued toincrease more and more. and by the time Gerda had finished herprayers, a whole legion stood round her. They thrust their spears intothe terrible snow flakes, so that they shivered into a hundred pieces,and little Gerda could go forward with courage and safety. Theangels stroked her hands and feet, so that she felt the cold less, andshe hastened on to the Snow Queen's castle.But now we must see what Kay is doing. In truth he thought notof little Gerda, and never supposed she could be standing in the frontof the palace.SEVENTH STORYOF THE PALACE OF THE SNOW QUEEN AND WHAT HAPPENED THERE AT LASTThe walls of the palace were formed of drifted snow, and thewindows and doors of the cutting winds. There were more than a hundredrooms in it, all as if they had been formed with snow blowntogether. The largest of them extended for several miles. they wereall lighted up by the vivid light of the aurora, and they were solarge and empty, so icy cold and glittering! There were noamusements here, not even a little bear's ball, when the storm mighthave been the music, and the bears could have danced on their hindlegs, and shown their good manners. There were no pleasant games ofsnap dragon, or touch, or even a gossip over the tea table, for theyoung lady foxes. Empty, vast, and cold were the halls of the SnowQueen. The flickering flame of the northern lights could be plainlyseen, whether they rose high or low in the heavens, from every part ofthe castle. In the midst of its empty, endless hall of snow was afrozen lake, broken on its surface into a thousand forms. each pieceresembled another, from being in itself perfect as a work of art,and in the centre of this lake sat the Snow Queen, when she was athome. She called the lake "The Mirror of Reason," and said that it wasthe best, and indeed the only one in the world.Little Kay was quite blue with cold, indeed almost black, but hedid not feel it. for the Snow Queen had kissed away the icyshiverings, and his heart was already a lump of ice. He dragged somesharp, flat pieces of ice to and fro, and placed them together inall kinds of positions, as if he wished to make something out of them.just as we try to form various figures with little tablets of woodwhich we call "a Chinese puzzle." Kay's fingers were very artistic. itwas the icy game of reason at which he played, and in his eyes thefigures were very remarkable, and of the highest importance. thisopinion was owing to the piece of glass still sticking in his eye.He composed many complete figures, forming different words, butthere was one word he never could manage to form, although he wishedit very much. It was the word "Eternity." The Snow Queen had said tohim, "When you can find out this, you shall be your own master, andI will give you the whole world and a new pair of skates." But hecould not accomplish it."Now I must hasten away to warmer countries," said the Snow Queen."I will go and look into the black craters of the tops of theburning mountains, Etna and Vesuvius, as they are called, I shallmake them look white, which will be good for them, and for thelemons and the grapes." And away flew the Snow Queen, leaving littleKay quite alone in the great hall which was so many miles in length.so he sat and looked at his pieces of ice, and was thinking so deeply,and sat so still, that any one might have supposed he was frozen.Just at this moment it happened that little Gerda came through thegreat door of the castle. Cutting winds were raging around her, butshe offered up a prayer and the winds sank down as if they weregoing to sleep. and she went on till she came to the large empty hall,and caught sight of Kay. she knew him directly. she flew to him andthrew her arms round his neck, and held him fast, while she exclaimed,"Kay, dear little Kay, I have found you at last."But he sat quite still, stiff and cold.Then little Gerda wept hot tears, which fell on his breast, andpenetrated into his heart, and thawed the lump of ice, and washed awaythe little piece of glass which had stuck there. Then he looked ather, and she sang "Roses bloom and cease to be,But we shall the Christ child see."Then Kay burst into tears, and he wept so that the splinter ofglass swam out of his eye. Then he recognized Gerda, and said,joyfully, "Gerda, dear little Gerda, where have you been all thistime, and where have I been?" And he looked all around him, andsaid, "How cold it is, and how large and empty it all looks," and heclung to Gerda, and she laughed and wept for joy. It was so pleasingto see them that the pieces of ice even danced about. and when theywere tired and went to lie down, they formed themselves into theletters of the word which the Snow Queen had said he must find outbefore he could be his own master, and have the whole world and a pairof new skates. Then Gerda kissed his cheeks, and they became blooming.and she kissed his eyes, and they shone like her own. she kissed hishands and his feet, and then he became quite healthy and cheerful. TheSnow Queen might come home now when she pleased, for there stood hiscertainty of freedom, in the word she wanted, written in shiningletters of ice.Then they took each other by the hand, and went forth from thegreat palace of ice. They spoke of the grandmother, and of the roseson the roof, and as they went on the winds were at rest, and the sunburst forth. When they arrived at the bush with red berries, therestood the reindeer waiting for them, and he had brought anotheryoung reindeer with him, whose udders were full, and the childrendrank her warm milk and kissed her on the mouth. Then they carried Kayand Gerda first to the Finland woman, where they warmed themselvesthoroughly in the hot room, and she gave them directions about theirjourney home. Next they went to the Lapland woman, who had made somenew clothes for them, and put their sleighs in order. Both thereindeer ran by their side, and followed them as far as the boundariesof the country, where the first green leaves were budding. And herethey took leave of the two reindeer and the Lapland woman, and allsaid Farewell. Then the birds began to twitter, and the forest toowas full of green young leaves. and out of it came a beautifulhorse, which Gerda remembered, for it was one which had drawn thegolden coach. A young girl was riding upon it, with a shining redcap on her head, and pistols in her belt. It was the littlerobber maiden, who had got tired of staying at home. she was goingfirst to the north, and if that did not suit her, she meant to trysome other part of the world. She knew Gerda directly, and Gerdaremembered her: it was a joyful meeting."You are a fine fellow to go gadding about in this way," saidshe to little Kay, "I should like to know whether you deserve that anyone should go to the end of the world to find you."But Gerda patted her cheeks, and asked after the prince andprincess."They are gone to foreign countries," said the robber girl."And the crow?" asked Gerda."Oh, the crow is dead," she replied. "his tame sweetheart is now awidow, and wears a bit of black worsted round her leg. She mourns verypitifully, but it is all stuff. But now tell me how you managed to gethim back."Then Gerda and Kay told her all about it."Snip, snap, snare! it's all right at last," said the robber girl.Then she took both their hands, and promised that if ever sheshould pass through the town, she would call and pay them a visit. Andthen she rode away into the wide world. But Gerda and Kay wenthand in hand towards home. and as they advanced, spring appearedmore lovely with its green verdure and its beautiful flowers. Verysoon they recognized the large town where they lived, and the tallsteeples of the churches, in which the sweet bells were ringing amerry peal as they entered it, and found their way to theirgrandmother's door. They went upstairs into the little room, where alllooked just as it used to do. The old clock was going "tick, tick,"and the hands pointed to the time of day, but as they passed throughthe door into the room they perceived that they were both grown up,and become a man and woman. The roses out on the roof were in fullbloom, and peeped in at the window. and there stood the little chairs,on which they had sat when children. and Kay and Gerda seatedthemselves each on their own chair, and held each other by the hand,while the cold empty grandeur of the Snow Queen's palace vanished fromtheir memories like a painful dream. The grandmother sat in God'sbright sunshine, and she read aloud from the Bible, "Except yebecome as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into thekingdom of God." And Kay and Gerda looked into each other's eyes,and all at once understood the words of the old song,"Roses bloom and cease to be,But we shall the Christ child see."And they both sat there, grown up, yet children at heart. and it wassummer, warm, beautiful summer.