Once upon a time in the country of Japan there lived two frogs, one ofwhom made his home in a ditch near the town of Osaka, on the sea coast,while the other dwelt in a clear little stream which ran through thecity of Kioto. At such a great distance apart, they had never even heardof each other. but, funnily enough, the idea came into both their headsat once that they should like to see a little of the world, and thefrog who lived at Kioto wanted to visit Osaka, and the frog who lived atOsaka wished to go to Kioto, where the great Mikado had his palace.So one fine morning in the spring they both set out along the road thatled from Kioto to Osaka, one from one end and the other from the other.The journey was more tiring than they expected, for they did not knowmuch about travelling, and half way between the two towns there arose amountain which had to be climbed. It took them a long time and a greatmany hops to reach the top, but there they were at last, and what wasthe surprise of each to see another frog before him! They looked at eachother for a moment without speaking, and then fell into conversation,explaining the cause of their meeting so far from their homes. It wasdelightful to find that they both felt the same wish to learn a littlemore of their native country and as there was no sort of hurry theystretched themselves out in a cool, damp place, and agreed that theywould have a good rest before they parted to go their ways.'What a pity we are not bigger,' said the Osaka frog. 'for then we couldsee both towns from here, and tell if it is worth our while going on.''Oh, that is easily managed,' returned the Kioto frog. 'We have only gotto stand up on our hind legs, and hold on to each other, and then we caneach look at the town he is travelling to.'This idea pleased the Osaka frog so much that he at once jumped up andput his front paws on the shoulders of his friend, who had risen also.There they both stood, stretching themselves as high as they could, andholding each other tightly, so that they might not fall down. The Kiotofrog turned his nose towards Osaka, and the Osaka frog turned his nosetowards Kioto. but the foolish things forgot that when they stood uptheir great eyes lay in the backs of their heads, and that though theirnoses might point to the places to which they wanted to go their eyesbeheld the places from which they had come.'Dear me!' cried the Osaka frog, 'Kioto is exactly like Osaka. It iscertainly not worth such a long journey. I shall go home!''If I had had any idea that Osaka was only a copy of Kioto I shouldnever have travelled all this way,' exclaimed the frog from Kioto, andas he spoke he took his hands from his friend's shoulders, and they bothfell down on the grass. Then they took a polite farewell of each other,and set off for home again, and to the end of their lives they believedthat Osaka and Kioto, which are as different to look at as two towns canbe, were as like as two peas.(Japanische Marchen.)