Once upon a time there lived an emperor who had three sons. They wereall fine young men, and fond of hunting, and scarcely a day passedwithout one or other of them going out to look for game.One morning the eldest of the three princes mounted his horse and setout for a neighbouring forest, where wild animals of all sorts were tobe found. He had not long left the castle, when a hare sprang out of athicket and dashed across the road in front. The young man gave chaseat once, and pursued it over hill and dale, till at last the hare tookrefuge in a mill which was standing by the side of a river. The princefollowed and entered the mill, but stopped in terror by the door, for,instead of a hare, before him stood a dragon, breathing fire and flame.At this fearful sight the prince turned to fly, but a fiery tonguecoiled round his waist, and drew him into the dragon's mouth, and he wasseen no more.A week passed away, and when the prince never came back everyone in thetown began to grow uneasy. At last his next brother told the emperorthat he likewise would go out to hunt, and that perhaps he would findsome clue as to his brother's disappearance. But hardly had the castlegates closed on the prince than the hare sprang out of the bushes asbefore, and led the huntsman up hill and down dale, till they reachedthe mill. Into this the hare flew with the prince at his heels, when,lo! instead of the hare, there stood a dragon breathing fire and flame.and out shot a fiery tongue which coiled round the prince's waist, andlifted him straight into the dragon's mouth, and he was seen no more.Days went by, and the emperor waited and waited for the sons who nevercame, and could not sleep at night for wondering where they were andwhat had become of them. His youngest son wished to go in search of hisbrothers, but for long the emperor refused to listen to him, lest heshould lose him also. But the prince prayed so hard for leave to makethe search, and promised so often that he would be very cautious andcareful, that at length the emperor gave him permission, and ordered thebest horse in the stables to be saddled for him.Full of hope the young prince started on his way, but no sooner washe outside the city walls than a hare sprang out of the bushes and ranbefore him, till they reached the mill. As before, the animal dashed inthrough the open door, but this time he was not followed by the prince.Wiser than his brothers, the young man turned away, saying to himself:'There are as good hares in the forest as any that have come out of it,and when I have caught them, I can come back and look for you.'For many hours he rode up and down the mountain, but saw nothing, and atlast, tired of waiting, he went back to the mill. Here he found an oldwoman sitting, whom he greeted pleasantly.'Good morning to you, little mother,' he said. and the old womananswered: 'Good morning, my son.''Tell me, little mother,' went on the prince, 'where shall I find myhare?''My son,' replied the old woman, 'that was no hare, but a dragon who hasled many men hither, and then has eaten them all.' At these words theprince's heart grew heavy, and he cried, 'Then my brothers must havecome here, and have been eaten by the dragon!''You have guessed right,' answered the old woman. 'and I can give you nobetter counsel than to go home at once, before the same fate overtakesyou.''Will you not come with me out of this dreadful place?' said the youngman.'He took me prisoner, too,' answered she, 'and I cannot shake off hischains.''Then listen to me,' cried the prince. 'When the dragon comes back,ask him where he always goes when he leaves here, and what makes him sostrong. and when you have coaxed the secret from him, tell me the nexttime I come.'So the prince went home, and the old woman remained in the mill, and assoon as the dragon returned she said to him:'Where have you been all this time you must have travelled far?''Yes, little mother, I have indeed travelled far.' answered he. Then theold woman began to flatter him, and to praise his cleverness. andwhen she thought she had got him into a good temper, she said: 'I havewondered so often where you get your strength from. I do wish you wouldtell me. I would stoop and kiss the place out of pure love!' The dragonlaughed at this, and answered:'In the hearthstone yonder lies the secret of my strength.'Then the old woman jumped up and kissed the hearth. whereat the dragonlaughed the more, and said:'You foolish creature! I was only jesting. It is not in the hearthstone,but in that tall tree that lies the secret of my strength.' Then theold woman jumped up again and put her arms round the tree, and kissed itheartily. Loudly laughed the dragon when he saw what she was doing.'Old fool,' he cried, as soon as he could speak, 'did you really believethat my strength came from that tree?''Where is it then?' asked the old woman, rather crossly, for she did notlike being made fun of.'My strength,' replied the dragon, 'lies far away. so far that you couldnever reach it. Far, far from here is a kingdom, and by its capital cityis a lake, and in the lake is a dragon, and inside the dragon is a wildboar, and inside the wild boar is a pigeon, and inside the pigeon asparrow, and inside the sparrow is my strength.' And when the old womanheard this, she thought it was no use flattering him any longer, fornever, never, could she take his strength from him.The following morning, when the dragon had left the mill, the princecame back, and the old woman told him all that the creature had said. Helistened in silence, and then returned to the castle, where he put ona suit of shepherd's clothes, and taking a staff in his hand, he wentforth to seek a place as tender of sheep.For some time he wandered from village to village and from town to town,till he came at length to a large city in a distant kingdom, surroundedon three sides by a great lake, which happened to be the very lake inwhich the dragon lived. As was his custom, he stopped everybody whom hemet in the streets that looked likely to want a shepherd and begged themto engage him, but they all seemed to have shepherds of their own, orelse not to need any. The prince was beginning to lose heart, when a manwho had overheard his question turned round and said that he had bettergo and ask the emperor, as he was in search of some one to see after hisflocks.'Will you take care of my sheep?' said the emperor, when the young manknelt before him.'Most willingly, your Majesty,' answered the young man, and he listenedobediently while the emperor told him what he was to do.'Outside the city walls,' went on the emperor, 'you will find a largelake, and by its banks lie the richest meadows in my kingdom. When youare leading out your flocks to pasture, they will all run straight tothese meadows, and none that have gone there have ever been known tocome back. Take heed, therefore, my son, not to suffer your sheep to gowhere they will, but drive them to any spot that you think best.'With a low bow the prince thanked the emperor for his warning, andpromised to do his best to keep the sheep safe. Then he left the palaceand went to the market place, where he bought two greyhounds, a hawk,and a set of pipes. after that he took the sheep out to pasture. Theinstant the animals caught sight of the lake lying before them, theytrotted off as fast as their legs would go to the green meadows lyinground it. The prince did not try to stop them. he only placed his hawkon the branch of a tree, laid his pipes on the grass, and bade thegreyhounds sit still. then, rolling up his sleeves and trousers, hewaded into the water crying as he did so: 'Dragon! dragon! if you arenot a coward, come out and fight with me!' And a voice answered from thedepths of the lake:'I am waiting for you, O prince'. and the next minute the dragon rearedhimself out of the water, huge and horrible to see. The prince sprangupon him and they grappled with each other and fought together till thesun was high, and it was noonday. Then the dragon gasped:'O prince, let me dip my burning head once into the lake, and I willhurl you up to the top of the sky.' But the prince answered, 'Oh, ho! mygood dragon, do not crow too soon! If the emperor's daughter were onlyhere, and would kiss me on the forehead, I would throw you up higherstill!' And suddenly the dragon's hold loosened, and he fell back intothe lake.As soon as it was evening, the prince washed away all signs of thefight, took his hawk upon his shoulder, and his pipes under his arm, andwith his greyhounds in front and his flock following after him he setout for the city. As they all passed through the streets the peoplestared in wonder, for never before had any flock returned from the lake.The next morning he rose early, and led his sheep down the road to thelake. This time, however, the emperor sent two men on horseback to ridebehind him, with orders to watch the prince all day long. The horsemenkept the prince and his sheep in sight, without being seen themselves.As soon as they beheld the sheep running towards the meadows, theyturned aside up a steep hill, which overhung the lake. When the shepherdreached the place he laid, as before, his pipes on the grass and badethe greyhounds sit beside them, while the hawk he perched on the branchof the tree. Then he rolled up his trousers and his sleeves, and wadedinto the water crying:'Dragon! dragon! if you are not a coward, come out and fight with me!'And the dragon answered:'I am waiting for you, O prince,' and the next minute he reared himselfout of the water, huge and horrible to see. Again they clasped eachother tight round the body and fought till it was noon, and when the sunwas at its hottest, the dragon gasped:'O prince, let me dip my burning head once in the lake, and I will hurlyou up to the top of the sky.' But the prince answered:'Oh, ho! my good dragon, do not crow too soon! If the emperor's daughterwere only here, and would kiss me on the forehead, I would throw you uphigher still!' And suddenly the dragon's hold loosened, and he fell backinto the lake.As soon as it was evening the prince again collected his sheep, andplaying on his pipes he marched before them into the city. When hepassed through the gates all the people came out of their houses tostare in wonder, for never before had any flock returned from the lake.Meanwhile the two horsemen had ridden quickly back, and told the emperorall that they had seen and heard. The emperor listened eagerly to theirtale, then called his daughter to him and repeated it to her.'To morrow,' he said, when he had finished, 'you shall go with theshepherd to the lake, and then you shall kiss him on the forehead as hewishes.'But when the princess heard these words, she burst into tears, andsobbed out:'Will you really send me, your only child, to that dreadful place, fromwhich most likely I shall never come back?''Fear nothing, my little daughter, all will be well. Many shepherds havegone to that lake and none have ever returned. but this one has in thesetwo days fought twice with the dragon and has escaped without a wound.So I hope to morrow he will kill the dragon altogether, and deliver thisland from the monster who has slain so many of our bravest men.'Scarcely had the sun begun to peep over the hills next morning, whenthe princess stood by the shepherd's side, ready to go to the lake.The shepherd was brimming over with joy, but the princess only weptbitterly. 'Dry your tears, I implore you,' said he. 'If you will just dowhat I ask you, and when the time comes, run and kiss my forehead, youhave nothing to fear.'Merrily the shepherd blew on his pipes as he marched at the head of hisflock, only stopping every now and then to say to the weeping girl athis side:'Do not cry so, Heart of Gold. trust me and fear nothing.' And so theyreached the lake.In an instant the sheep were scattered all over the meadows, and theprince placed his hawk on the tree, and his pipes on the grass, while hebade his greyhounds lie beside them. Then he rolled up his trousers andhis sleeves, and waded into the water, calling:'Dragon! dragon! if you are not a coward, come forth, and let us haveone more fight together.' And the dragon answered: 'I am waiting foryou, O prince'. and the next minute he reared himself out of the water,huge and horrible to see. Swiftly he drew near to the bank, and theprince sprang to meet him, and they grasped each other round the bodyand fought till it was noon. And when the sun was at its hottest, thedragon cried:'O prince, let me dip my burning head in the lake, and I will hurl youto the top of the sky.' But the prince answered:'Oh, ho! my good dragon, do not crow too soon! If the emperor's daughterwere only here, and she would kiss my forehead, I would throw you higherstill.'Hardly had he spoken, when the princess, who had been listening, ranup and kissed him on the forehead. Then the prince swung the dragonstraight up into the clouds, and when he touched the earth again, hebroke into a thousand pieces. Out of the pieces there sprang a wild boarand galloped away, but the prince called his hounds to give chase, andthey caught the boar and tore it to bits. Out of the pieces there spranga hare, and in a moment the greyhounds were after it, and they caughtit and killed it. and out of the hare there came a pigeon. Quickly theprince let loose his hawk, which soared straight into the air, thenswooped upon the bird and brought it to his master. The prince cut openits body and found the sparrow inside, as the old woman had said.'Now,' cried the prince, holding the sparrow in his hand, 'now you shalltell me where I can find my brothers.''Do not hurt me,' answered the sparrow, 'and I will tell you with all myheart.' Behind your father's castle stands a mill, and in the mill arethree slender twigs. Cut off these twigs and strike their roots withthem, and the iron door of a cellar will open. In the cellar you willfind as many people, young and old, women and children, as would fill akingdom, and among them are your brothers.'By this time twilight had fallen, so the prince washed himself in thelake, took the hawk on his shoulder and the pipes under his arm, andwith his greyhounds before him and his flock behind him, marched gailyinto the town, the princess following them all, still tremblingwith fright. And so they passed through the streets, thronged with awondering crowd, till they reached the castle.Unknown to anyone, the emperor had stolen out on horseback, and hadhidden himself on the hill, where he could see all that happened. Whenall was over, and the power of the dragon was broken for ever, he rodequickly back to the castle, and was ready to receive the prince withopen arms, and to promise him his daughter to wife. The wedding tookplace with great splendour, and for a whole week the town was hung withcoloured lamps, and tables were spread in the hall of the castle for allwho chose to come and eat. And when the feast was over, the princetold the emperor and the people who he really was, and at this everyonerejoiced still more, and preparations were made for the prince andprincess to return to their own kingdom, for the prince was impatient toset free his brothers.The first thing he did when he reached his native country was to hastento the mill, where he found the three twigs as the sparrow had told him.The moment that he struck the root the iron door flew open, and from thecellar a countless multitude of men and women streamed forth. He badethem go one by one wheresoever they would, while he himself waited bythe door till his brothers passed through. How delighted they were tomeet again, and to hear all that the prince had done to deliver themfrom their enchantment. And they went home with him and served himall the days of their lives, for they said that he only who had provedhimself brave and faithful was fit to be king.