An old story yet lives of the "Thorny Road of Honor," of amarksman, who indeed attained to rank and office, but only after alifelong and weary strife against difficulties. Who has not, inreading this story, thought of his own strife, and of his own numerous"difficulties?" The story is very closely akin to reality. but stillit has its harmonious explanation here on earth, while reality oftenpoints beyond the confines of life to the regions of eternity. Thehistory of the world is like a magic lantern that displays to us, inlight pictures upon the dark ground of the present, how thebenefactors of mankind, the martyrs of genius, wandered along thethorny road of honor.From all periods, and from every country, these shining picturesdisplay themselves to us. Each only appears for a few moments, buteach represents a whole life, sometimes a whole age, with itsconflicts and victories. Let us contemplate here and there one ofthe company of martyrs the company which will receive new membersuntil the world itself shall pass away.We look down upon a crowded amphitheatre. Out of the "Clouds" ofAristophanes, satire and humor are pouring down in streams upon theaudience. on the stage Socrates, the most remarkable man in Athens, hewho had been the shield and defence of the people against the thirtytyrants, is held up mentally and bodily to ridicule Socrates, whosaved Alcibiades and Xenophon in the turmoil of battle, and whosegenius soared far above the gods of the ancients. He himself ispresent. he has risen from the spectator's bench, and has steppedforward, that the laughing Athenians may well appreciate thelikeness between himself and the caricature on the stage. There hestands before them, towering high above them all.Thou juicy, green, poisonous hemlock, throw thy shadow overAthens not thou, olive tree of fame!Seven cities contended for the honor of giving birth to Homer thatis to say, they contended after his death! Let us look at himas he was in his lifetime. He wanders on foot through the cities,and recites his verses for a livelihood. the thought for the morrowturns his hair gray! He, the great seer, is blind, and painfullypursues his way the sharp thorn tears the mantle of the king ofpoets. His song yet lives, and through that alone live all theheroes and gods of antiquity.One picture after another springs up from the east, from the west,far removed from each other in time and place, and yet each oneforming a portion of the thorny road of honor, on which the thistleindeed displays a flower, but only to adorn the grave.The camels pass along under the palm trees. they are richlyladen with indigo and other treasures of value, sent by the ruler ofthe land to him whose songs are the delight of the people, the fame ofthe country. He whom envy and falsehood have driven into exile hasbeen found, and the caravan approaches the little town in which he hastaken refuge. A poor corpse is carried out of the town gate, and thefuneral procession causes the caravan to halt. The dead man is he whomthey have been sent to seek Firdusi who has wandered the Thorny roadof honor even to the end.The African, with blunt features, thick lips, and woolly hair,sits on the marble steps of the palace in the capital of Portugal, andbegs. He is the submissive slave of Camoens, and but for him, andfor the copper coins thrown to him by the passers by, his master,the poet of the "Lusiad," would die of hunger. Now, a costlymonument marks the grave of Camoens.There is a new picture.Behind the iron grating a man appears, pale as death, with longunkempt beard."I have made a discovery," he says, "the greatest that has beenmade for centuries. and they have kept me locked up here for more thantwenty years!"Who is the man?"A madman," replies the keeper of the madhouse. "What whimsicalideas these lunatics have! He imagines that one can propel things bymeans of steam."It is Solomon de Cares, the discoverer of the power of steam,whose theory, expressed in dark words, is not understood by Richelieu.and he dies in the madhouse.Here stands Columbus, whom the street boys used once to follow andjeer, because he wanted to discover a new world. and he has discoveredit. Shouts of joy greet him from the breasts of all, and the clashof bells sounds to celebrate his triumphant return. but the clash ofthe bells of envy soon drowns the others. The discoverer of a world hewho lifted the American gold land from the sea, and gave it tohis king he is rewarded with iron chains. He wishes that these chainsmay be placed in his coffin, for they witness to the world of theway in which a man's contemporaries reward good service.One picture after another comes crowding on. the thorny path ofhonor and of fame is over filled.Here in dark night sits the man who measured the mountains inthe moon. he who forced his way out into the endless space, amongstars and planets. he, the mighty man who understood the spirit ofnature, and felt the earth moving beneath his feet Galileo. Blind anddeaf he sits an old man thrust through with the spear of suffering,and amid the torments of neglect, scarcely able to lift his foot thatfoot with which, in the anguish of his soul, when men denied thetruth, he stamped upon the ground, with the exclamation, "Yet itmoves!"Here stands a woman of childlike mind, yet full of faith andinspiration. She carries the banner in front of the combating army,and brings victory and salvation to her fatherland. The sound ofshouting arises, and the pile flames up. They are burning the witch,Joan of Arc. Yes, and a future century jeers at the White Lily.Voltaire, the satyr of human intellect, writes "La Pucelle."At the Thing or Assembly at Viborg, the Danish nobles burn thelaws of the king. They flame up high, illuminating the period andthe lawgiver, and throw a glory into the dark prison tower, where anold man is growing gray and bent. With his finger he marks out agroove in the stone table. It is the popular king who sits there, oncethe ruler of three kingdoms, the friend of the citizen and thepeasant. It is Christian the Second. Enemies wrote his history. Let usremember his improvements of seven and twenty years, if we cannotforget his crime.A ship sails away, quitting the Danish shores. A man leans againstthe mast, casting a last glance towards the Island Hueen. It isTycho Brahe. He raised the name of Denmark to the stars, and wasrewarded with injury, loss and sorrow. He is going to a strangecountry."The vault of heaven is above me everywhere," he says, "and whatdo I want more?"And away sails the famous Dane, the astronomer, to live honoredand free in a strange land."Ay, free, if only from the unbearable sufferings of the body!"comes in a sigh through time, and strikes upon our ear. What apicture! Griffenfeldt, a Danish Prometheus, bound to the rockyisland of Munkholm.We are in America, on the margin of one of the largest rivers.an innumerable crowd has gathered, for it is said that a ship is tosail against the wind and weather, bidding defiance to the elements.The man who thinks he can solve the problem is named Robert Fulton.The ship begins its passage, but suddenly it stops. The crowd beginsto laugh and whistle and hiss the very father of the man whistleswith the rest."Conceit! Foolery!" is the cry. "It has happened just as hedeserved. Put the crack brain under lock and key!"Then suddenly a little nail breaks, which had stopped themachine for a few moments. and now the wheels turn again, the floatsbreak the force of the waters, and the ship continues its course.and the beam of the steam engine shortens the distance between farlands from hours into minutes.O human race, canst thou grasp the happiness of such a minute ofconsciousness, this penetration of the soul by its mission, the momentin which all dejection, and every wound even those caused by one'sown fault is changed into health and strength and clearness whendiscord is converted to harmony the minute in which men seem torecognize the manifestation of the heavenly grace in one man, and feelhow this one imparts it to all?Thus the thorny path of honor shows itself as a glory, surroundingthe earth with its beams. Thrice happy he who is chosen to be awanderer there, and, without merit of his own, to be placed betweenthe builder of the bridge and the earth between Providence and thehuman race.On mighty wings the spirit of history floats through the ages, andshows giving courage and comfort, and awakening gentle thoughts onthe dark nightly background, but in gleaming pictures, the thorny pathof honor, which does not, like a fairy tale, end in brilliancy and joyhere on earth, but stretches out beyond all time, even into eternity!