One day, when the sun was at the zenith and the air was very hot, a poordragonfly, fatigued with her long journey, alighted to rest on a branch ofa tree in which a great many monkeys lived.While she was fanning herself with her wings, a monkey approached her, andsaid, "Aha! What are you doing here, wretched creature?""O sir! I wish you would permit me to rest on this branch while the sun isso hot," said the dragonfly softly. "I have been flying all morning, and Iam so hot and tired that I can go no farther," she added."Indeed!" exclaimed the monkey in a mocking tone. "We don't allow any weakcreature such as you are to stay under our shelter. Go away!" he saidangrily, and, taking a dry twig, he threw it at the poor creature.The dragonfly, being very quick, had flown away before the cruel monkeycould hit her. She hurried to her brother the king, and told him what hadhappened. The king became very angry, and resolved to make war on themonkeys. So he dispatched three of his soldiers to the king of the monkeyswith this challenge:The King of the MonkeysSir,As one of your subjects has treated my sister cruelly, I am resolved tokill you and your subjects with all speed.DRAGONThe monkey king laughed at the challenge. He said to the messengers, "Letyour king and his soldiers come to the battlefield, and they will see howwell my troops fight.""You don't mean what you say, cruel king," answered the messengers. "Youshould not judge before the fight is over.""What fools, what fools!" exclaimed the king of the monkeys. "Go to yourruler and tell him my answer," and he drove the poor little creaturesaway.When the king of the dragonflies received the reply, he immediatelyordered his soldiers to go to the battlefield, but without anything tofight with. Meanwhile the monkeys came, each armed with a heavy stick.Then the monkey king shouted, "Strike the flying creatures with yourclubs!"When King Dragon heard this order, he commanded his soldiers to alight onthe foreheads of their enemies. Then the monkeys began to strike at thedragonflies, which were on the foreheads of their companions. Thedragonflies were very quick, and were not hurt at all. but the monkeyswere all killed. Thus the light, quick witted dragonflies won the victoryover the strong but foolish monkeys.