An accomplished wizard once lived on the top floor of a tenementhouse and passed his time in thoughtful study and studious thought.What he didn't know about wizardry was hardly worth knowing, for hepossessed all the books and recipes of all the wizards who had livedbefore him. and, moreover, he had invented several wizardmentshimself.This admirable person would have been completely happy but for thenumerous interruptions to his studies caused by folk who came toconsult him about their troubles (in which he was not interested),and by the loud knocks of the iceman, the milkman, the baker's boy,the laundryman and the peanut woman. He never dealt with any ofthese people. but they rapped at his door every day to see him aboutthis or that or to try to sell him their wares. Just when he wasmost deeply interested in his books or engaged in watching thebubbling of a cauldron there would come a knock at his door. Andafter sending the intruder away he always found he had lost histrain of thought or ruined his compound.At length these interruptions aroused his anger, and he decided hemust have a dog to keep people away from his door. He didn't knowwhere to find a dog, but in the next room lived a poor glass blowerwith whom he had a slight acquaintance. so he went into the man'sapartment and asked:"Where can I find a dog?""What sort of a dog?" inquired the glass blower."A good dog. One that will bark at people and drive them away. Onethat will be no trouble to keep and won't expect to be fed. One thathas no fleas and is neat in his habits. One that will obey me when Ispeak to him. In short, a good dog," said the wizard."Such a dog is hard to find," returned the glass blower, who wasbusy making a blue glass flower pot with a pink glass rosebush init, having green glass leaves and yellow glass roses.The wizard watched him thoughtfully."Why cannot you blow me a dog out of glass?" he asked, presently."I can," declared the glass blower. "but it would not bark atpeople, you know.""Oh, I'll fix that easily enough," replied the other. "If I couldnot make a glass dog bark I would be a mighty poor wizard.""Very well. if you can use a glass dog I'll be pleased to blow onefor you. Only, you must pay for my work.""Certainly," agreed the wizard. "But I have none of that horridstuff you call money. You must take some of my wares in exchange."The glass blower considered the matter for a moment."Could you give me something to cure my rheumatism?" he asked."Oh, yes. easily.""Then it's a bargain. I'll start the dog at once. What color ofglass shall I use?""Pink is a pretty color," said the wizard, "and it's unusual for adog, isn't it?""Very," answered the glass blower. "but it shall be pink."So the wizard went back to his studies and the glass blower began tomake the dog.Next morning he entered the wizard's room with the glass dog underhis arm and set it carefully upon the table. It was a beautiful pinkin color, with a fine coat of spun glass, and about its neck wastwisted a blue glass ribbon. Its eyes were specks of black glass andsparkled intelligently, as do many of the glass eyes worn by men.The wizard expressed himself pleased with the glass blower's skilland at once handed him a small vial."This will cure your rheumatism," he said."But the vial is empty!" protested the glass blower."Oh, no. there is one drop of liquid in it," was the wizard's reply."Will one drop cure my rheumatism?" inquired the glass blower, inwonder."Most certainly. That is a marvelous remedy. The one drop containedin the vial will cure instantly any kind of disease ever known tohumanity. Therefore it is especially good for rheumatism. But guardit well, for it is the only drop of its kind in the world, and I'veforgotten the recipe.""Thank you," said the glass blower, and went back to his room.Then the wizard cast a wizzy spell and mumbled several very learnedwords in the wizardese language over the glass dog. Whereupon thelittle animal first wagged its tail from side to side, then winkedhis left eye knowingly, and at last began barking in a mostfrightful manner that is, when you stop to consider the noise camefrom a pink glass dog. There is something almost astonishing in themagic arts of wizards. unless, of course, you know how to do thethings yourself, when you are not expected to be surprised at them.The wizard was as delighted as a school teacher at the success ofhis spell, although he was not astonished. Immediately he placed thedog outside his door, where it would bark at anyone who dared knockand so disturb the studies of its master.The glass blower, on returning to his room, decided not to use theone drop of wizard cure all just then."My rheumatism is better to day," he reflected, "and I will be wiseto save the medicine for a time when I am very ill, when it will beof more service to me."So he placed the vial in his cupboard and went to work blowing moreroses out of glass. Presently he happened to think the medicinemight not keep, so he started to ask the wizard about it. But whenhe reached the door the glass dog barked so fiercely that he darednot knock, and returned in great haste to his own room. Indeed, thepoor man was quite upset at so unfriendly a reception from the doghe had himself so carefully and skillfully made.The next morning, as he read his newspaper, he noticed an articlestating that the beautiful Miss Mydas, the richest young lady intown, was very ill, and the doctors had given up hope of herrecovery.The glass blower, although miserably poor, hard working and homelyof feature, was a man of ideas. He suddenly recollected his preciousmedicine, and determined to use it to better advantage thanrelieving his own ills. He dressed himself in his best clothes,brushed his hair and combed his whiskers, washed his hands and tiedhis necktie, blackened his hoes and sponged his vest, and then putthe vial of magic cure all in his pocket. Next he locked his door,went downstairs and walked through the streets to the grand mansionwhere the wealthy Miss Mydas resided.The butler opened the door and said:"No soap, no chromos, no vegetables, no hair oil, no books, nobaking powder. My young lady is dying and we're well supplied forthe funeral."The glass blower was grieved at being taken for a peddler."My friend," he began, proudly. but the butler interrupted him,saying:"No tombstones, either. there's a family graveyard and themonument's built.""The graveyard won't be needed if you will permit me to speak," saidthe glass blower."No doctors, sir. they've given up my young lady, and she's given upthe doctors," continued the butler, calmly."I'm no doctor," returned the glass blower."Nor are the others. But what is your errand?""I called to cure your young lady by means of a magical compound.""Step in, please, and take a seat in the hall. I'll speak to thehousekeeper," said the butler, more politely.So he spoke to the housekeeper and the housekeeper mentioned thematter to the steward and the steward consulted the chef and thechef kissed the lady's maid and sent her to see the stranger. Thusare the very wealthy hedged around with ceremony, even when dying.When the lady's maid heard from the glass blower that he had amedicine which would cure her mistress, she said:"I'm glad you came.""But," said he, "if I restore your mistress to health she must marryme.""I'll make inquiries and see if she's willing," answered the maid,and went at once to consult Miss Mydas.The young lady did not hesitate an instant."I'd marry any old thing rather than die!" she cried. "Bring himhere at once!"So the glass blower came, poured the magic drop into a little water,gave it to the patient, and the next minute Miss Mydas was as wellas she had ever been in her life."Dear me!" she exclaimed. "I've an engagement at the Fritters'reception to night. Bring my pearl colored silk, Marie, and I willbegin my toilet at once. And don't forget to cancel the order forthe funeral flowers and your mourning gown.""But, Miss Mydas," remonstrated the glass blower, who stood by, "youpromised to marry me if I cured you.""I know," said the young lady, "but we must have time to make properannouncement in the society papers and have the wedding cardsengraved. Call to morrow and we'll talk it over."The glass blower had not impressed her favorably as a husband, andshe was glad to find an excuse for getting rid of him for a time.And she did not want to miss the Fritters' reception.Yet the man went home filled with joy. for he thought his stratagemhad succeeded and he was about to marry a rich wife who would keephim in luxury forever afterward.The first thing he did on reaching his room was to smash hisglass blowing tools and throw them out of the window.He then sat down to figure out ways of spending his wife's money.The following day he called upon Miss Mydas, who was reading a noveland eating chocolate creams as happily as if she had never been illin her life."Where did you get the magic compound that cured me?" she asked."From a learned wizard," said he. and then, thinking it wouldinterest her, he told how he had made the glass dog for the wizard,and how it barked and kept everybody from bothering him."How delightful!" she said. "I've always wanted a glass dog thatcould bark.""But there is only one in the world," he answered, "and it belongsto the wizard.""You must buy it for me," said the lady."The wizard cares nothing for money," replied the glass blower."Then you must steal it for me," she retorted. "I can never livehappily another day unless I have a glass dog that can bark."The glass blower was much distressed at this, but said he would seewhat he could do. For a man should always try to please his wife,and Miss Mydas has promised to marry him within a week.On his way home he purchased a heavy sack, and when he passed thewizard's door and the pink glass dog ran out to bark at him he threwthe sack over the dog, tied the opening with a piece of twine, andcarried him away to his own room.The next day he sent the sack by a messenger boy to Miss Mydas, withhis compliments, and later in the afternoon he called upon her inperson, feeling quite sure he would be received with gratitude forstealing the dog she so greatly desired.But when he came to the door and the butler opened it, what was hisamazement to see the glass dog rush out and begin barking at himfuriously."Call off your dog," he shouted, in terror."I can't, sir," answered the butler. "My young lady has ordered theglass dog to bark whenever you call here. You'd better look out,sir," he added, "for if it bites you, you may have glassophobia!"This so frightened the poor glass blower that he went awayhurriedly. But he stopped at a drug store and put his last dime inthe telephone box so he could talk to Miss Mydas without beingbitten by the dog."Give me Pelf 6742!" he called."Hello! What is it?" said a voice."I want to speak with Miss Mydas," said the glass blower.Presently a sweet voice said: "This is Miss Mydas. What is it?""Why have you treated me so cruelly and set the glass dog on me?"asked the poor fellow."Well, to tell the truth," said the lady, "I don't like your looks.Your cheeks are pale and baggy, your hair is coarse and long, youreyes are small and red, your hands are big and rough, and you arebow legged.""But I can't help my looks!" pleaded the glass blower. "and youreally promised to marry me.""If you were better looking I'd keep my promise," she returned. "Butunder the circumstances you are no fit mate for me, and unless youkeep away from my mansion I shall set my glass dog on you!" Then shedropped the 'phone and would have nothing more to say.The miserable glass blower went home with a heart bursting withdisappointment and began tying a rope to the bedpost by which tohang himself.Some one knocked at the door, and, upon opening it, he saw thewizard."I've lost my dog," he announced."Have you, indeed?" replied the glass blower tying a knot in therope."Yes. some one has stolen him.""That's too bad," declared the glass blower, indifferently."You must make me another," said the wizard."But I cannot. I've thrown away my tools.""Then what shall I do?" asked the wizard."I do not know, unless you offer a reward for the dog.""But I have no money," said the wizard."Offer some of your compounds, then," suggested the glass blower,who was making a noose in the rope for his head to go through."The only thing I can spare," replied the wizard, thoughtfully, "isa Beauty Powder.""What!" cried the glass blower, throwing down the rope, "have youreally such a thing?""Yes, indeed. Whoever takes the powder will become the mostbeautiful person in the world.""If you will offer that as a reward," said the glass blower,eagerly, "I'll try to find the dog for you, for above everythingelse I long to be beautiful.""But I warn you the beauty will only be skin deep," said the wizard."That's all right," replied the happy glass blower. "when I lose myskin I shan't care to remain beautiful.""Then tell me where to find my dog and you shall have the powder,"promised the wizard.So the glass blower went out and pretended to search, and by and byhe returned and said:"I've discovered the dog. You will find him in the mansion of MissMydas."The wizard went at once to see if this were true, and, sure enough,the glass dog ran out and began barking at him. Then the wizardspread out his hands and chanted a magic spell which sent the dogfast asleep, when he picked him up and carried him to his own roomon the top floor of the tenement house.Afterward he carried the Beauty Powder to the glass blower as areward, and the fellow immediately swallowed it and became the mostbeautiful man in the world.The next time he called upon Miss Mydas there was no dog to bark athim, and when the young lady saw him she fell in love with hisbeauty at once."If only you were a count or a prince," she sighed, "I'd willinglymarry you.""But I am a prince," he answered. "the Prince of Dogblowers.""Ah!" said she. "then if you are willing to accept an allowance offour dollars a week I'll order the wedding cards engraved."The man hesitated, but when he thought of the rope hanging from hisbedpost he consented to the terms.So they were married, and the bride was very jealous of herhusband's beauty and led him a dog's life. So he managed to get intodebt and made her miserable in turn.As for the glass dog, the wizard set him barking again by means ofhis wizardness and put him outside his door. I suppose he is thereyet, and am rather sorry, for I should like to consult the wizardabout the moral to this story.