One day a wolverine was out walking on the hill side, when, on turning acorner, he suddenly saw a large rock.'Was that you I heard walking about just now?' he asked, for wolverinesare cautious animals, and always like to know the reasons of things.'No, certainly not,' answered the rock. 'I don't know how to walk.''But I SAW you walking,' continued the wolverine.'I am afraid that you were not taught to speak the truth,' retorted therock.'You need not speak like that, for I have SEEN you walking,' replied thewolverine, 'though I am quite sure that you could never catch ME!'and he ran a little distance and then stopped to see if the rock waspursuing him. but, to his vexation, the rock was still in the sameplace. Then the wolverine went up close, and struck the rock a blow withhis paw, saying: 'Well, will you catch me NOW?''I can't walk, but I can ROLL,' answered the rock.And the wolverine laughed and said: 'Oh, that will do just as well'. andbegan to run down the side of the mountain.At first he went quite slowly, 'just to give the rock a chance,' hethought to himself. but soon he quickened his pace, for he found thatthe rock was almost at his heels. But the faster the wolverine ran, thefaster the rock rolled, and by and by the little creature began to getvery tired, and was sorry he had not left the rock to itself. Thinkingthat if he could manage to put on a spurt he would reach the forestof great trees at the bottom of the mountain, where the rock could notcome, he gathered up all his strength, and instead of running he leapedover sticks and stones, but, whatever he did, the rock was always closebehind him. At length he grew so weary that he could not even see wherehe was going, and catching his foot in a branch he tripped and fell. Therock stopped at once, but there came a shriek from the wolverine:'Get off, get off! can't you see that you are on my legs?''Why did you not leave me alone?' asked the rock. 'I did not want tomove I hate moving. But you WOULD have it, and I certainly sha'n't movenow till I am forced to.''I will call my brothers,' answered the wolverine. 'There are many ofthem in the forest, and you will soon see that they are stronger thanyou.' And he called, and called, and called, till wolves and foxesand all sorts of other creatures all came running to see what was thematter.'How DID you get under that rock?' asked they, making a ring round him.but they had to repeat their question several times before the wolverinewould answer, for he, like many other persons, found it hard to confessthat he had brought his troubles on himself.'Well, I was dull, and wanted someone to play with me,' he said at last,in sulky voice, 'and I challenged the rock to catch me. Of course Ithought I could run the fastest. but I tripped, and it rolled on me. Itwas just an accident.''It serves you right for being so silly,' said they. but they pushed andhauled at the rock for a long time without making it move an inch.'You are no good at all,' cried the wolverine crossly, for it wassuffering great pain, 'and if you cannot get me free, I shall see whatmy friends the lightning and thunder can do.' And he called loudly tothe lightning to come and help him as quickly as possible.In a few minutes a dark cloud came rolling up the sky, giving out suchterrific claps of thunder that the wolves and the foxes and all theother creatures ran helter skelter in all directions. But, frightenedthough they were, they did not forget to beg the lightning to take offthe wolverine's coat and to free his legs, but to be careful not to hurthim. So the lightning disappeared into the cloud for a moment to gatherup fresh strength, and then came rushing down, right upon the rock,which it sent flying in all directions, and took the wolverine's coat soneatly that, though it was torn into tiny shreds, the wolverine himselfwas quite unharmed.'That was rather clumsy of you,' said he, standing up naked in hisflesh. 'Surely you could have split the rock without tearing my coatto bits!' And he stooped down to pick up the pieces. It took him a longtime, for there were a great many of them, but at last he had them allin his hand.'I'll go to my sister the frog,' he thought to himself, 'and she willsew them together for me'. and he set off at once for the swamp in whichhis sister lived.'Will you sew my coat together? I had an unlucky accident, and it isquite impossible to wear,' he said, when he found her.'With pleasure,' she answered, for she had always been taught to bepolite. and getting her needle and thread she began to fit the pieces.But though she was very good natured, she was not very clever, and shegot some of the bits wrong. When the wolverine, who was very particularabout his clothes, came to put it on, he grew very angry.'What a useless creature you are!' cried he. 'Do you expect me to goabout in such a coat as that? Why it bulges all down the back, as ifI had a hump, and it is so tight across the chest that I expect it toburst every time I breathe. I knew you were stupid, but I did not thinkyou were as stupid as that.' And giving the poor frog a blow on herhead, which knocked her straight into the water, he walked off in a rageto his younger sister the mouse.'I tore my coat this morning,' he began, when he had found her sittingat the door of her house eating an apple. 'It was all in little bits,and I took it to our sister the frog to ask her to sew it for me. Butjust look at the way she has done it! You will have to take it to piecesand fit them together properly, and I hope I shall not have to complainagain.' For as the wolverine was older than the mouse, he was accustomedto speak to her in this manner. However, the mouse was used to it andonly answered: 'I think you had better stay here till it is done, and ifthere is any alteration needed I can make it.' So the wolverine sat downon a heap of dry ferns, and picking up the apple, he finished it withouteven asking the mouse's leave.At last the coat was ready, and the wolverine put it on.'Yes, it fits very well,' said he, 'and you have sewn it very neatly.When I pass this way again I will bring you a handful of corn, asa reward'. and he ran off as smart as ever, leaving the mouse quitegrateful behind him.He wandered about for many days, till he reached a place where food wasvery scarce, and for a whole week he went without any. He was growingdesperate, when he suddenly came upon a bear that was lying asleep. 'Ah!here is food at last!' thought he. but how was he to kill the bear, whowas so much bigger than himself? It was no use to try force, he mustinvent some cunning plan which would get her into his power. At last,after thinking hard, he decided upon something, and going up to thebear, he exclaimed: 'Is that you, my sister?'The bear turned round and saw the wolverine, and murmuring to herself,so low that nobody could hear, 'I never heard before that I had abrother,' got up and ran quickly to a tree, up which she climbed. Nowthe wolverine was very angry when he saw his dinner vanishing in frontof him, especially as HE could not climb trees like the bear, so hefollowed, and stood at the foot of the tree, shrieking as loud as hecould, 'Come down, sister. our father has sent me to look for you! Youwere lost when you were a little girl and went out picking berries, andit was only the other day that we heard from a beaver where you were.'At these words, the bear came a little way down the tree, and thewolverine, seeing this, went on:'Are you not fond of berries? I am! And I know a place where theygrow so thick the ground is quite hidden. Why, look for yourself! Thathillside is quite red with them!''I can't see so far,' answered the bear, now climbing down altogether.'You must have wonderfully good eyes! I wish I had. but my sight is veryshort.''So was mine till my father smashed a pailful of cranberries, and rubbedmy eyes with them,' replied the wolverine. 'But if you like to go andgather some of the berries I will do just as he did, and you will soonbe able to see as far as me.'It took the bear a long while to gather the berries, for she was slowabout everything, and, besides, it made her back ache to stoop. Butat last she returned with a sackful, and put them down beside thewolverine. 'That is splendid, sister!' cried the wolverine. 'Now lieflat on the ground with your head on this stone, while I smash them.'The bear, who was very tired, was only too glad to do as she was bid,and stretched herself comfortably on the grass.'I am ready now,' said the wolverine after a bit. 'just at first youwill find that the berries make your eyes smart, but you must be carefulnot to move, or the juice will run out, and then it will have to be doneall over again.'So the bear promised to lie very still. but the moment the cranberriestouched her eyes she sprang up with a roar.'Oh, you mustn't mind a little pain,' said the wolverine, 'it will soonbe over, and then you will see all sorts of things you have never dreamtof.' The bear sank down with a groan, and as her eyes were full ofcranberry juice, which completely blinded her, the wolverine took up asharp knife and stabbed her to the heart.Then he took off the skin, and, stealing some fire from a tent, whichhis sharp eyes had perceived hidden behind a rock, he set about roastingthe bear bit by bit. He thought the meat was the best he ever hadtasted, and when dinner was done he made up his mind to try that sametrick again, if ever he was hungry.And very likely he did!