Once upon a time there lived an old couple who had one son calledMartin. Now when the old man's time had come, he stretched himself outon his bed and died. Though all his life long he had toiled and moiled,he only left his widow and son two hundred florins. The old womandetermined to put by the money for a rainy day. but alas! the rainy daywas close at hand, for their meal was all consumed, and who is preparedto face starvation with two hundred florins at their disposal? So theold woman counted out a hundred of her florins, and giving them toMartin, told him to go into the town and lay in a store of meal for ayear.So Martin started off for the town. When he reached the meat market hefound the whole place in turmoil, and a great noise of angry voices andbarking of dogs. Mixing in the crowd, he noticed a stag hound which thebutchers had caught and tied to a post, and which was being flogged ina merciless manner. Overcome with pity, Martin spoke to the butchers,saying:'Friends, why are you beating the poor dog so cruelly?''We have every right to beat him,' they replied. 'he has just devoured anewly killed pig.''Leave off beating him,' said Martin, 'and sell him to me instead.''If you choose to buy him,' answered the butchers derisively. 'but forsuch a treasure we won't take a penny less than a hundred florins.''A hundred!' exclaimed Martin. 'Well, so be it, if you will not takeless.' and, taking the money out of his pocket, he handed it over inexchange for the dog, whose name was Schurka.When Martin got home, his mother met him with the question:'Well, what have you bought?''Schurka, the dog,' replied Martin, pointing to his new possession.Whereupon his mother became very angry, and abused him roundly. He oughtto be ashamed of himself, when there was scarcely a handful of meal inthe house, to have spent the money on a useless brute like that. On thefollowing day she sent him back to the town, saying, 'Here, take ourlast hundred florins, and buy provisions with them. I have just emptiedthe last grains of meal out of the chest, and baked a bannock. but itwon't last over to morrow.'Just as Martin was entering the town he met a rough looking peasant whowas dragging a cat after him by a string which was fastened round thepoor beast's neck.'Stop,' cried Martin. 'where are you dragging that poor cat?''I mean to drown him,' was the answer.'What harm has the poor beast done?' said Martin.'It has just killed a goose,' replied the peasant.'Don't drown him, sell him to me instead,' begged Martin.'Not for a hundred florins,' was the answer.'Surely for a hundred florins you'll sell it?' said Martin. 'See! hereis the money.' and, so saying, he handed him the hundred florins, whichthe peasant pocketed, and Martin took possession of the cat, which wascalled Waska.When he reached his home his mother greeted him with the question:'Well, what have you brought back?''I have brought this cat, Waska,' answered Martin.'And what besides?''I had no money over to buy anything else with,' replied Martin.'You useless ne'er do weel!' exclaimed his mother in a great passion.'Leave the house at once, and go and beg your bread among strangers.'and as Martin did not dare to contradict her, he called Schurka andWaska and started off with them to the nearest village in search ofwork. On the way he met a rich peasant, who asked him where he wasgoing.'I want to get work as a day labourer,' he answered.'Come along with me, then. But I must tell you I engage my labourerswithout wages. If you serve me faithfully for a year, I promise you itshall be for your advantage.'So Martin consented, and for a year he worked diligently, and servedhis master faithfully, not sparing himself in any way. When the day ofreckoning had come the peasant led him into a barn, and pointing to twofull sacks, said: 'Take whichever of these you choose.'Martin examined the contents of the sacks, and seeing that one was fullof silver and the other of sand, he said to himself:'There must be some trick about this. I had better take the sand.' Andthrowing the sack over his shoulders he started out into the world,in search of fresh work. On and on he walked, and at last he reacheda great gloomy wood. In the middle of the wood he came upon a meadow,where a fire was burning, and in the midst of the fire, surrounded byflames, was a lovely damsel, more beautiful than anything that Martinhad ever seen, and when she saw him she called to him:'Martin, if you would win happiness, save my life. Extinguish the flameswith the sand that you earned in payment of your faithful service.''Truly,' thought Martin to himself, 'it would be more sensible to save afellow being's life with this sand than to drag it about on one's back,seeing what a weight it is.' And forthwith he lowered the sack from hisshoulders and emptied its contents on the flames, and instantly thefire was extinguished. but at the same moment lo! and behold the lovelydamsel turned into a Serpent, and, darting upon him, coiled itself roundhis neck, and whispered lovingly in his ear:'Do not be afraid of me, Martin. I love you, and will go with youthrough the world. But first you must follow me boldly into my Father'sKingdom, underneath the earth. and when we get there, remember this hewill offer you gold and silver, and dazzling gems, but do not touchthem. Ask him, instead, for the ring which he wears on his littlefinger, for in that ring lies a magic power. you have only to throw itfrom one hand to the other, and at once twelve young men will appear,who will do your bidding, no matter how difficult, in a single night.'So they started on their way, and after much wandering they reacheda spot where a great rock rose straight up in the middle of the road.Instantly the Serpent uncoiled itself from his neck, and, as it touchedthe damp earth, it resumed the shape of the lovely damsel. Pointing tothe rock, she showed him an opening just big enough for a man to wrigglethrough. Passing into it, they entered a long underground passage, whichled out on to a wide field, above which spread a blue sky. In the middleof the field stood a magnificent castle, built out of porphyry, with aroof of gold and with glittering battlements. And his beautiful guidetold him that this was the palace in which her father lived and reignedover his kingdom in the Under world.Together they entered the palace, and were received by the King withgreat kindness. Turning to his daughter, he said:'My child, I had almost given up the hope of ever seeing you again.Where have you been all these years?''My father,' she replied, 'I owe my life to this youth, who saved mefrom a terrible death.'Upon which the King turned to Martin with a gracious smile, saying: 'Iwill reward your courage by granting you whatever your heart desires.Take as much gold, silver, and precious stones as you choose.''I thank you, mighty King, for your gracious offer,' answered Martin,''but I do not covet either gold, silver, or precious stones. yet if youwill grant me a favour, give me, I beg, the ring from off the littlefinger of your royal hand. Every time my eye falls on it I shall thinkof your gracious Majesty, and when I marry I shall present it to mybride.'So the King took the ring from his finger and gave it to Martin, saying:'Take it, good youth. but with it I make one condition you are neverto confide to anyone that this is a magic ring. If you do, you willstraightway bring misfortune on yourself.'Martin took the ring, and, having thanked the King, he set out on thesame road by which he had come down into the Under world. When he hadregained the upper air he started for his old home, and having found hismother still living in the old house where he had left her, they settleddown together very happily. So uneventful was their life that italmost seemed as if it would go on in this way always, without let orhindrance. But one day it suddenly came into his mind that he would liketo get married, and, moreover, that he would choose a very grand wife aKing's daughter, in short. But as he did not trust himself as a wooer,he determined to send his old mother on the mission.'You must go to the King,' he said to her, 'and demand the hand of hislovely daughter in marriage for me.''What are you thinking of, my son?' answered the old woman, aghast atthe idea. 'Why cannot you marry someone in your own rank? That would befar more fitting than to send a poor old woman like me a wooing to theKing's Court for the hand of a Princess. Why, it is as much as our headsare worth. Neither my life nor yours would be worth anything if I wenton such a fool's errand.''Never fear, little mother,' answered Martin. 'Trust me. all will bewell. But see that you do not come back without an answer of some kind.'And so, obedient to her son's behest, the old woman hobbled off to thepalace, and, without being hindered, reached the courtyard, and began tomount the flight of steps leading to the royal presence chamber. Atthe head of the landing rows of courtiers were collected in magnificentattire, who stared at the queer old figure, and called to her, andexplained to her, with every kind of sign, that it was strictlyforbidden to mount those steps. But their stern words and forbiddinggestures made no impression whatever on the old woman, and sheresolutely continued to climb the stairs, bent on carrying out her son'sorders. Upon this some of the courtiers seized her by the arms, and heldher back by sheer force, at which she set up such a yell that the Kinghimself heard it, and stepped out on to the balcony to see what was thematter. When he beheld the old woman flinging her arms wildly about, andheard her scream that she would not leave the place till she had laidher case before the King, he ordered that she should be brought intohis presence. And forthwith she was conducted into the golden presencechamber, where, leaning back amongst cushions of royal purple, the Kingsat, surrounded by his counsellors and courtiers. Courtesying low, theold woman stood silent before him. 'Well, my good old dame, what can Ido for you?' asked the King.'I have come,' replied Martin's mother 'and your Majesty must not beangry with me I have come a wooing.''Is the woman out of her mind?' said the King, with an angry frown.But Martin's mother answered boldly: 'If the King will only listenpatiently to me, and give me a straightforward answer, he will see thatI am not out of my mind. You, O King, have a lovely daughter to givein marriage. I have a son a wooer as clever a youth and as good ason in law as you will find in your whole kingdom. There is nothing thathe cannot do. Now tell me, O King, plump and plain, will you give yourdaughter to my son as wife?' The King listened to the end of the oldwoman's strange request, but every moment his face grew blacker, and hisfeatures sterner. till all at once he thought to himself, 'Is it worthwhile that I, the King, should be angry with this poor old fool?' Andall the courtiers and counsellors were amazed when they saw the hardlines round his mouth and the frown on his brow grow smooth, and heardthe mild but mocking tones in which he answered the old woman, saying:'If your son is as wonderfully clever as you say, and if there isnothing in the world that he cannot do, let him build a magnificentcastle, just opposite my palace windows, in four and twenty hours. Thepalace must be joined together by a bridge of pure crystal. On eachside of the bridge there must be growing trees, having golden and silverapples, and with birds of Paradise among the branches. At the right ofthe bridge there must be a church, with five golden cupolas. in thischurch your son shall be wedded to my daughter, and we will keep thewedding festivities in the new castle. But if he fails to execute thismy royal command, then, as a just but mild monarch, I shall give ordersthat you and he are taken, and first dipped in tar and then in feathers,and you shall be executed in the market place for the entertainment ofmy courtiers.'And a smile played round the King's lips as he finished speaking, andhis courtiers and counsellors shook with laughter when they thought ofthe old woman's folly, and praised the King's wise device, and said toeach other, 'What a joke it will be when we see the pair of them tarredand feathered! The son is just as able to grow a beard on the palm ofhis hand as to execute such a task in twenty four hours.'Now the poor old woman was mortally afraid and, in a trembling voice sheasked:'Is that really your royal will, O King? Must I take this order to mypoor son?''Yes, old dame. such is my command. If your son carries out my order,he shall be rewarded with my daughter. but if he fails, away to thetar barrel and the stake with you both!'On her way home the poor old woman shed bitter tears, and when she sawMartin she told him what the King had said, and sobbed out:'Didn't I tell you, my son, that you should marry someone of your ownrank? It would have been better for us this day if you had. As I toldyou, my going to Court has been as much as our lives are worth, andnow we will both be tarred and feathered, and burnt in the publicmarket place. It is terrible!' and she moaned and cried.'Never fear, little mother,' answered Martin. 'trust me, and you willsee all will be well. You may go to sleep with a quiet mind.'And, stepping to the front of the hut, Martin threw his ring from thepalm of one hand into the other, upon which twelve youths instantlyappeared, and demanded what he wanted them to do. Then he told them theKing's commands, and they answered that by next morning all should beaccomplished exactly as the King had ordered.Next morning when the King awoke, and looked out of his window, to hisamazement he beheld a magnificent castle, just opposite his own palace,and joined to it a bridge of pure crystal.At each side of the bridge trees were growing, from whose branches hunggolden and silver apples, among which birds of Paradise perched. At theright, gleaming in the sun, were the five golden cupolas of a splendidchurch, whose bells rang out, as if they would summon people from allcorners of the earth to come and behold the wonder. Now, though the Kingwould much rather have seen his future son in law tarred, feathered, andburnt at the stake, he remembered his royal oath, and had to make thebest of a bad business. So he took heart of grace, and made Martin aDuke, and gave his daughter a rich dowry, and prepared the grandestwedding feast that had ever been seen, so that to this day the oldpeople in the country still talk of it.After the wedding Martin and his royal bride went to dwell in themagnificent new palace, and here Martin lived in the greatest comfortand luxury, such luxury as he had never imagined. But though he was ashappy as the day was long, and as merry as a grig, the King's daughterfretted all day, thinking of the indignity that had been done her inmaking her marry Martin, the poor widow's son, instead of a rich youngPrince from a foreign country. So unhappy was she that she spent all hertime wondering how she should get rid of her undesirable husband.And first she determined to learn the secret of his power, and, withflattering, caressing words, she tried to coax him to tell her how hewas so clever that there was nothing in the world that he could not do.At first he would tell her nothing. but once, when he was in a yieldingmood, she approached him with a winning smile on her lovely face, and,speaking flattering words to him, she gave him a potion to drink, witha sweet, strong taste. And when he had drunk it Martin's lips wereunsealed, and he told her that all his power lay in the magic ring thathe wore on his finger, and he described to her how to use it, and, stillspeaking, he fell into a deep sleep. And when she saw that the potionhad worked, and that he was sound asleep, the Princess took the magicring from his finger, and, going into the courtyard, she threw it fromthe palm of one hand into the other.On the instant the twelve youths appeared, and asked her what shecommanded them to do. Then she told them that by the next morning theywere to do away with the castle, and the bridge, and the church, andput in their stead the humble hut in which Martin used to live with hismother, and that while he slept her husband was to be carried to his oldlowly room. and that they were to bear her away to the utmost ends ofthe earth, where an old King lived who would make her welcome in hispalace, and surround her with the state that befitted a royal Princess.'You shall be obeyed,' answered the twelve youths at the same moment.And lo and behold! the following morning, when the King awoke and lookedout of his window he beheld to his amazement that the palace, bridge,church, and trees had all vanished, and there was nothing in their placebut a bare, miserable looking hut.Immediately the King sent for his son in law, and commanded him toexplain what had happened. But Martin looked at his royal father in law,and answered never a word. Then the King was very angry, and, callinga council together, he charged Martin with having been guilty ofwitchcraft, and of having deceived the King, and having made away withthe Princess. and he was condemned to imprisonment in a high stonetower, with neither meat nor drink, till he should die of starvation.Then, in the hour of his dire necessity, his old friends Schurka (thedog) and Waska (the cat) remembered how Martin had once saved them froma cruel death. and they took counsel together as to how they should helphim. And Schurka growled, and was of opinion that he would like to teareveryone in pieces. but Waska purred meditatively, and scratched theback of her ear with a velvet paw, and remained lost in thought. At theend of a few minutes she had made up her mind, and, turning to Schurka,said: 'Let us go together into the town, and the moment we meet a bakeryou must make a rush between his legs and upset the tray from off hishead. I will lay hold of the rolls, and will carry them off to ourmaster.' No sooner said than done. Together the two faithful creaturestrotted off into the town, and very soon they met a baker bearing a trayon his head, and looking round on all sides, while he cried:'Fresh rolls, sweet cake,Fancy bread of every kind.Come and buy, come and take,Sure you'll find it to your mind,'At that moment Schurka made a rush between his legs the baker stumbled,the tray was upset, the rolls fell to the ground, and, while the manangrily pursued Schurka, Waska managed to drag the rolls out of sightbehind a bush. And when a moment later Schurka joined her, they set offat full tilt to the stone tower where Martin was a prisoner, taking therolls with them. Waska, being very agile, climbed up by the outside tothe grated window, and called in an anxious voice:'Are you alive, master?''Scarcely alive almost starved to death,' answered Martin in a weakvoice. 'I little thought it would come to this, that I should die ofhunger.''Never fear, dear master. Schurka and I will look after you,' saidWaska. And in another moment she had climbed down and brought him back aroll, and then another, and another, till she had brought him the wholetray load. Upon which she said: 'Dear master, Schurka and I are goingoff to a distant kingdom at the utmost ends of the earth to fetch youback your magic ring. You must be careful that the rolls last till ourreturn.'And Waska took leave of her beloved master, and set off with Schurkaon their journey. On and on they travelled, looking always to rightand left for traces of the Princess, following up every track, makinginquiries of every cat and dog they met, listening to the talk of everywayfarer they passed. and at last they heard that the kingdom at theutmost ends of the earth where the twelve youths had borne the Princesswas not very far off. And at last one day they reached that distantkingdom, and, going at once to the palace, they began to make friendswith all the dogs and cats in the place, and to question them aboutthe Princess and the magic ring. but no one could tell them much abouteither. Now one day it chanced that Waska had gone down to the palacecellar to hunt for mice and rats, and seeing an especially fat, well fedmouse, she pounced upon it, buried her claws in its soft fur, and wasjust going to gobble it up, when she was stopped by the pleading tonesof the little creature, saying, 'If you will only spare my life I may beof great service to you. I will do everything in my power for you. for Iam the King of the Mice, and if I perish the whole race will die out.''So be it,' said Waska. 'I will spare your life. but in return you mustdo something for me. In this castle there lives a Princess, the wickedwife of my dear master. She has stolen away his magic ring. You must getit away from her at whatever cost. do you hear? Till you have done thisI won't take my claws out of your fur.''Good!' replied the mouse. 'I will do what you ask.' And, so saying,he summoned all the mice in his kingdom together. A countless numberof mice, small and big, brown and grey, assembled, and formed a circleround their king, who was a prisoner under Waska's claws. Turning tothem he said: 'Dear and faithful subjects, who ever among you will stealthe magic ring from the strange Princess will release me from a crueldeath. and I shall honour him above all the other mice in the kingdom.'Instantly a tiny mouse stepped forward and said: 'I often creep aboutthe Princess's bedroom at night, and I have noticed that she has a ringwhich she treasures as the apple of her eye. All day she wears it on herfinger, and at night she keeps it in her mouth. I will undertake, sire,to steal away the ring for you.'And the tiny mouse tripped away into the bedroom of the Princess, andwaited for nightfall. then, when the Princess had fallen asleep, itcrept up on to her bed, and gnawed a hole in the pillow, through whichit dragged one by one little down feathers, and threw them under thePrincess's nose. And the fluff flew into the Princess's nose, and intoher mouth, and starting up she sneezed and coughed, and the ring fellout of her mouth on to the coverlet. In a flash the tiny mouse hadseized it, and brought it to Waska as a ransom for the King of the Mice.Thereupon Waska and Schurka started off, and travelled night and daytill they reached the stone tower where Martin was imprisoned. and thecat climbed up the window, and called out to him:'Martin, dear master, are you still alive?''Ah! Waska, my faithful little cat, is that you?' replied a weak voice.'I am dying of hunger. For three days I have not tasted food.''Be of good heart, dear master,' replied Waska. 'from this day forth youwill know nothing but happiness and prosperity. If this were a moment totrouble you with riddles, I would make you guess what Schurka and I havebrought you back. Only think, we have got you your ring!'At these words Martin's joy knew no bounds, and he stroked her fondly,and she rubbed up against him and purred happily, while below Schurkabounded in the air, and barked joyfully. Then Martin took the ring, andthrew it from one hand into the other, and instantly the twelve youthsappeared and asked what they were to do.'Fetch me first something to eat and drink, as quickly as possible. andafter that bring musicians hither, and let us have music all day long.'Now when the people in the town and palace heard music coming from thetower they were filled with amazement, and came to the King with thenews that witchcraft must be going on in Martin's Tower, for, insteadof dying of starvation, he was seemingly making merry to the sound ofmusic, and to the clatter of plates, and glass, and knives and forks.and the music was so enchantingly sweet that all the passers by stoodstill to listen to it. On this the King sent at once a messenger tothe Starvation Tower, and he was so astonished with what he saw that heremained rooted to the spot. Then the King sent his chief counsellors,and they too were transfixed with wonder. At last the King came himself,and he likewise was spellbound by the beauty of the music.Then Martin summoned the twelve youths, spoke to them, saying, 'Build upmy castle again, and join it to the King's Palace with a crystal bridge.do not forget the trees with the golden and silver apples, and with thebirds of Paradise in the branches. and put back the church with the fivecupolas, and let the bells ring out, summoning the people from the fourcorners of the kingdom. And one thing more: bring back my faithlesswife, and lead her into the women's chamber.'And it was all done as he commanded, and, leaving the Starvation Tower,he took the King, his father in law, by the arm, and led him into thenew palace, where the Princess sat in fear and trembling, awaiting herdeath. And Martin spoke to the King, saying, 'King and royal father, Ihave suffered much at the hands of your daughter. What punishment shallbe dealt to her?'Then the mild King answered: 'Beloved Prince and son in law, if you loveme, let your anger be turned to grace forgive my daughter, and restoreher to your heart and favour.'And Martin's heart was softened and he forgave his wife, and they livedhappily together ever after. And his old mother came and lived with him,and he never parted with Schurka and Waska. and I need hardly tell youthat he never again let the ring out of his possession.