A king who had a beautiful daughter had an unusual idea. He proclaimed throughout the entire land that whoever could bring him a green fig at Christmas time should receive the princess to wife.Now there was a country dweller who had three sons. The oldest was a cobbler, the second a tailor, but the third one had no trade at all. He was nothing but a kitchen guy.One day around Christmas time the boys' father found a tree in the woods with three green figs. He took them home, put one of them in a little basket, and said to his oldest son, "Put your best clothes on and take this fig to the king."The boy dressed up smartly and set forth.Coming into a great forest he met a little old man who asked him, "What do you have in your basket?""What am I supposed to have in it? It's dung," said the cobbler."So!" replied the little man. "If it is dung, then let it be dung!"The lad continued on his way, finally arriving at the royal palace. The guard asked him what he wanted."I'm bringing a green fig to the king," he said.They let him enter. When he stepped before the king and gave him the basket, it turned out to be just as the little man had said. They gave him a good beating and sent him on his way.Back at home he said that his mission had been unsuccessful, but he did not admit what had actually happened.Then the tailor said, "You must have done something stupid. I will be more clever, if father will send me with another fig."The father gave his permission and put another fig in a basket for him. In the woods the same thing happened to the tailor. He answered the little old man even more rudely, and at the palace received an even harder beating than his brother had.Back at home he did not admit why he too had failed.Now the cinder lad wanted to try his luck with the third fig.His brothers said, "You stupid devil, the guards will never let you in."The youth did not give his father any peace until he allowed him to try his luck with the third fig. He too met the little man in the woods. When he was asked what was in his basket, he said, honestly and politely, "A green fig that I am taking to the king.""Now, my son," said the little man, "if you have a green fig, then let it remain a green fig. And because you are such an honest fellow I want to give you something. Here is a little flute. If you play on it, everything that you want will come to you."Thanking the little man, the lad put the flute in his pocket and continued on to the royal palace. After a little difficulty he gained entrance. He gave the king the basket, and behold! The fig was still a fig.However, the princess was not happy about marrying the lad. She said, "I will marry you only under one condition. You must let the hundred hares that are in the stall graze in the woods for eight days without losing a single one."He accepted the task, and his little flute made it possible for him to bring all hundred back home on the first evening.Then the princess thought, "I have to be clever about this."The next day she disguised herself and went into the woods where he was herding."Will you sell me a hare?""I won't sell you one," he said, "but you can earn one from me.""How?" she asked."The donkey that you're riding   just kiss its behind," he said."I'd rather do that than to marry this peasant," she thought, and did what he had demanded.He gave her a hare. When she had gone a little way he blew on his flute. The hare immediately freed itself and returned to its herder. Thus on the second evening he again returned with all hundred hares.The next day the queen came out in disguise, and the same thing happened to her.On the fourth day the king tried his luck, but he fared no better.At the end of eight days the youth thought that he had now earned the hand of the princess. But the king insisted on yet another task."You must," he said, "bring me three sacks filled with truths."The lad asked for time to think things through, left the palace, and went out into the woods. No solution came to him, and he was about ready to give up all hope when the little man came to him and asked why he was so sad.After hearing the lad's response, the little man said, "Oh, that's nothing! Just tell them how you traded away the hares!"So the lad returned to the palace and said, "I have what you asked for.""Let us hear," said the king."When I was herding the hares," began the youth, "on the second day the princess came to me and wanted a hare. But she didn't get one until she had kissed the donkey's b  ""Stop!" shouted the king. "One sack is full.""The next day the queen came to me and wanted   ""Stop!" shouted the king. "The second sack is full.""On the following day," said the lad, "the   ""Stop!" shouted the king. "The third sack is full."The king gave a wedding celebration with drinking a feasting. I too was there, but when I went into the kitchen and nibbled a bit on the roast, the cook gave me such a blow on my behind with a foam spoon that I flew all the way from there to here.