In a small village near Kampen there lived a man and a woman with a fewchildren. They eked out a living by fishing, weaving, and poaching.One evening the man was looking after his salmon weirs (enclosuresbuilt in a stream for catching fish) and fox traps when he found a largebag of money on the road. Instead of looking after his traps and weirs, hereturned home, wanting for once to give his Grete a pleasant surprise.But when he was almost home he reconsidered and said to himself, "If Itell my wife about this, tomorrow the entire world will know. So he wentback and placed the bag of money behind a thick tree and looked into hisfox traps and weirs. A fox was sitting in one of them, and a salmon in theother. He killed them both, then put the fox into the weir and the salmoninto the trap. Then he went back to his Grete, who was busy weaving."Oh, Grete!" he called out, "Do come with me. It is so dark that I lostmy way."Grete did not think long about it and went with Peter. Their path ledthem past the courthouse, where a light was still burning late, becausepeople were inside cleaning."Good gracious, Peter!" said Grete. "There is still a light on in thecourthouse, and so late in the evening.""Yes," said Peter, "Tonight the gendarme is settling his account withthe devil.""No! Peter! Is that true?""Of course," said Peter. "Didn't you know that the gendarme settles hisaccount with the devil once each year?""No, I really did not know that," said Grete.Finally they came to the weir, where they found a fox, and a fat salmonwas caught in the fox trap. Then they turned toward home, but on the wayPeter said, "Grete, it is raining hard. Let's get under that tree a littlewhile." And the moment they sat down Grete found the large bag ofmoney."Peter," said Grete, "we had better go home as fast as possible, so noone will notice, and we can't tell anyone about it either.""No, not on our lives," said Peter.But it wasn't long before Grete just had to tell her neighbor Trinchen.She, for sure, would not tell a single soul. But Trinchen told Mariechen,and Mariechen told Hannchen, and then the entire village knew about it. Itwasn't long before Peter and Grete were summoned to the courthouse to turnin the money."We did not find any money," said Peter."But," said the mayor, "your wife says that you did.""Yes, Lord Mayor," said Peter, "My wife does talk a lot, but she is notall there upstairs.""Is a monkey delousing me? Are you trying to have me declared insane?"cried Grete. "I know exactly when it was. It was the night when thegendarme was settling his account with the devil and when we caught a foxin the weir and a salmon in the fox trap.""So, Lord Mayor, what do you say to that?" said Peter."I hear you," said the mayor. "Just go back home."