Once upon a time there lived an emperor who was a great conqueror, andreigned over more countries than anyone in the world. And whenever hesubdued a fresh kingdom, he only granted peace on condition that theking should deliver him one of his sons for ten years' service.Now on the borders of his kingdom lay a country whose emperor was asbrave as his neighbour, and as long as he was young he was the victor inevery war. But as years passed away, his head grew weary of makingplans of campaign, and his people wanted to stay at home and till theirfields, and at last he too felt that he must do homage to the otheremperor.One thing, however, held him back from this step which day by day he sawmore clearly was the only one possible. His new overlord would demandthe service of one of his sons. And the old emperor had no son. onlythree daughters.Look on which side he would, nothing but ruin seemed to lie before him,and he became so gloomy, that his daughters were frightened, and dideverything they could think of to cheer him up, but all to no purpose.At length one day when they were at dinner, the eldest of the threesummoned up all her courage and said to her father:'What secret grief is troubling you? Are your subjects discontented? orhave we given you cause for displeasure? To smooth away your wrinkles,we would gladly shed our blood, for our lives are bound up in yours. andthis you know.''My daughter,' answered the emperor, 'what you say is true. Never haveyou given me one moment's pain. Yet now you cannot help me. Ah! why isnot one of you a boy!''I don't understand,' she answered in surprise. 'Tell us what is wrong:and though we are not boys, we are not quite useless!''But what can you do, my dear children? Spin, sew, and weave that isall your learning. Only a warrior can deliver me now, a young giant whois strong to wield the battle axe: whose sword deals deadly blows.''But WHY do you need a son so much at present? Tell us all about it! Itwill not make matters worse if we know!''Listen then, my daughters, and learn the reason of my sorrow. You haveheard that as long as I was young no man ever brought an army againstme without it costing him dear. But the years have chilled my blood anddrunk my strength. And now the deer can roam the forest, my arrows willnever pierce his heart. strange soldiers will set fire to my houses andwater their horses at my wells, and my arm cannot hinder them. No, myday is past, and the time has come when I too must bow my head under theyoke of my foe! But who is to give him the ten years' service that ispart of the price which the vanquished must pay?''_I_ will,' cried the eldest girl, springing to her feet. But her fatheronly shook his head sadly.'Never will I bring shame upon you,' urged the girl. 'Let me go. Am Inot a princess, and the daughter of an emperor?''Go then!' he said.The brave girl's heart almost stopped beating from joy, as she set abouther preparations. She was not still for a single moment, but dancedabout the house, turning chests and wardrobes upside down. She setaside enough things for a whole year dresses embroidered with gold andprecious stones, and a great store of provisions. And she chose the mostspirited horse in the stable, with eyes of flame, and a coat of shiningsilver.When her father saw her mounted and curvetting about the court, he gaveher much wise advice, as to how she was to behave like the young man sheappeared to be, and also how to behave as the girl she really was. Thenhe gave her his blessing, and she touched her horse with the spur.The silver armour of herself and her steed dazzled the eyes of thepeople as she darted past. She was soon out of sight, and if after a fewmiles she had not pulled up to allow her escort to join her, the rest ofthe journey would have been performed alone.But though none of his daughters were aware of the fact, the old emperorwas a magician, and had laid his plans accordingly. He managed, unseen,to overtake his daughter, and throw a bridge of copper over a streamwhich she would have to cross. Then, changing himself into a wolf, helay down under one of the arches, and waited.He had chosen his time well, and in about half an hour the sound of ahorse's hoofs was heard. His feet were almost on the bridge, when a biggrey wolf with grinning teeth appeared before the princess. With a deepgrowl that froze the blood, he drew himself up, and prepared to spring.The appearance of the wolf was so sudden and so unexpected, that thegirl was almost paralysed, and never even dreamt of flight, till thehorse leaped violently to one side. Then she turned him round, andurging him to his fullest speed, never drew rein till she saw the gatesof the palace rising before her.The old emperor, who had got back long since, came to the door to meether, and touching her shining armour, he said, 'Did I not tell you, mychild, that flies do not make honey?'The days passed on, and one morning the second princess implored herfather to allow her to try the adventure in which her sister had madesuch a failure. He listened unwillingly, feeling sure it was no use, butshe begged so hard that in the end he consented, and having chosen herarms, she rode away.But though, unlike her sister, she was quite prepared for the appearanceof the wolf when she reached the copper bridge, she showed no greatercourage, and galloped home as fast as her horse could carry her. On thesteps of the castle her father was standing, and as still trembling withfright she knelt at his feet, he said gently, 'Did I not tell you, mychild, that every bird is not caught in a net?'The three girls stayed quietly in the palace for a little while,embroidering, spinning, weaving, and tending their birds and flowers,when early one morning, the youngest princess entered the door of theemperor's private apartments. 'My father, it is my turn now. Perhaps Ishall get the better of that wolf!''What, do you think you are braver than your sisters, vain little one?You who have hardly left your long clothes behind you!' but she did notmind being laughed at, and answered,'For your sake, father, I would cut the devil himself into small bits,or even become a devil myself. I think I shall succeed, but if I fail, Ishall come home without more shame than my sisters.'Still the emperor hesitated, but the girl petted and coaxed him till atlast he said,'Well, well, if you must go, you must. It remains to be seen what Ishall get by it, except perhaps a good laugh when I see you come backwith your head bent and your eyes on the ground.''He laughs best who laughs last,' said the princess.Happy at having got her way, the princess decided that the first thingto be done was to find some old white haired boyard, whose advice shecould trust, and then to be very careful in choosing her horse. So shewent straight to the stables where the most beautiful horses in theempire were feeding in the stalls, but none of them seemed quite whatshe wanted. Almost in despair she reached the last box of all, which wasoccupied by her father's ancient war horse, old and worn like himself,stretched sadly out on the straw.The girl's eyes filled with tears, and she stood gazing at him. Thehorse lifted his head, gave a little neigh, and said softly, 'You lookgentle and pitiful, but I know it is your love for your father whichmakes you tender to me. Ah, what a warrior he was, and what good timeswe shared together! But now I too have grown old, and my master hasforgotten me, and there is no reason to care whether my coat is dull orshining. Yet, it is not too late, and if I were properly tended, in aweek I could vie with any horse in the stables!''And how should you be tended?' asked the girl.'I must be rubbed down morning and evening with rain water, my barleymust be boiled in milk, because of my bad teeth, and my feet must bewashed in oil.''I should like to try the treatment, as you might help me in carryingout my scheme.''Try it then, mistress, and I promise you will never repent.'So in a week's time the horse woke up one morning with a sudden shiverthrough all his limbs. and when it had passed away, he found his skinshining like a mirror, his body as fat as a water melon, his movementlight as a chamois.Then looking at the princess who had come early to the stable, he saidjoyfully,'May success await on the steps of my master's daughter, for she hasgiven me back my life. Tell me what I can do for you, princess, and Iwill do it.''I want to go to the emperor who is our over lord, and I have no oneto advise me. Which of all the white headed boyards shall I choose ascounsellor?''If you have me, you need no one else: I will serve you as I served yourfather, if you will only listen to what I say.''I will listen to everything. Can you start in three days?''This moment, if you like,' said the horse.The preparations of the emperor's youngest daughter were much fewer andsimpler than those of her sisters. They only consisted of some boy'sclothes, a small quantity of linen and food, and a little money in caseof necessity. Then she bade farewell to her father, and rode away.A day's journey from the palace, she reached the copper bridge, butbefore they came in sight of it, the horse, who was a magician, hadwarned her of the means her father would take to prove her courage.Still in spite of his warning she trembled all over when a huge wolf, asthin as if he had fasted for a month, with claws like saws, and mouthas wide as an oven, bounded howling towards her. For a moment her heartfailed her, but the next, touching the horse lightly with her spur, shedrew her sword from its sheath, ready to separate the wolf's head fromits body at a single blow.The beast saw the sword, and shrank back, which was the best thing itcould do, as now the girl's blood was up, and the light of battle in hereyes. Then without looking round, she rode across the bridge.The emperor, proud of this first victory, took a short cut, and waitedfor her at the end of another day's journey, close to a river, overwhich he threw a bridge of silver. And this time he took the shape of alion.But the horse guessed this new danger and told the princess how toescape it. But it is one thing to receive advice when we feel safe andcomfortable, and quite another to be able to carry it out when someawful peril is threatening us. And if the wolf had made the girl quakewith terror, it seemed like a lamb beside this dreadful lion.At the sound of his roar the very trees quivered and his claws were solarge that every one of them looked like a cutlass.The breath of the princess came and went, and her feet rattled in thestirrups. Suddenly the remembrance flashed across her of the wolf whomshe had put to flight, and waving her sword, she rushed so violently onthe lion that he had barely time to spring on one side, so as to avoidthe blow. Then, like a flash, she crossed this bridge also.Now during her whole life, the princess had been so carefully broughtup, that she had never left the gardens of the palace, so that the sightof the hills and valleys and tinkling streams, and the song of the larksand blackbirds, made her almost beside herself with wonder and delight.She longed to get down and bathe her face in the clear pools, and pickthe brilliant flowers, but the horse said 'No,' and quickened his pace,neither turning to the right or the left.'Warriors,' he told her, 'only rest when they have won the victory. Youhave still another battle to fight, and it is the hardest of all.'This time it was neither a wolf nor a lion that was waiting for her atthe end of the third day's journey, but a dragon with twelve heads, anda golden bridge behind it.The princess rode up without seeing anything to frighten her, when asudden puff of smoke and flame from beneath her feet, caused her tolook down, and there was the horrible creature twisted and writhing, itstwelve heads reared up as if to seize her between them.The bridle fell from her hand: and the sword which she had just graspedslid back into its sheath, but the horse bade her fear nothing, and witha mighty effort she sat upright and spurred straight on the dragon.The fight lasted an hour and the dragon pressed her hard. But in theend, by a well directed side blow, she cut off one of the heads, andwith a roar that seemed to rend the heavens in two, the dragon fell backon the ground, and rose as a man before her.Although the horse had informed the princess the dragon was really herown father, the girl had hardly believed him, and stared in amazement atthe transformation. But he flung his arms round her and pressed her tohis heart saying, 'Now I see that you are as brave as the bravest, andas wise as the wisest. You have chosen the right horse, for without hishelp you would have returned with a bent head and downcast eyes. Youhave filled me with the hope that you may carry out the task you haveundertaken, but be careful to forget none of my counsels, and above allto listen to those of your horse.'When he had done speaking, the princess knelt down to receive hisblessing, and they went their different ways.The princess rode on and on, till at last she came to the mountainswhich hold up the roof of the world. There she met two Genii who hadbeen fighting fiercely for two years, without one having got the leastadvantage over the other. Seeing what they took to be a young manseeking adventures, one of the combatants called out, 'Fet Fruners!deliver me from my enemy, and I will give you the horn that can beheard the distance of a three days' journey.' while the other cried,'Fet Fruners! help me to conquer this pagan thief, and you shall have myhorse, Sunlight.'Before answering, the princess consulted her own horse as to which offershe should accept, and he advised her to side with the genius who wasmaster of Sunlight, his own younger brother, and still more active thanhimself.So the girl at once attacked the other genius, and soon clove his skull.then the one who was left victor begged her to come back with him to hishouse and he would hand her over Sunlight, as he had promised.The mother of the genius was rejoiced to see her son return safe andsound, and prepared her best room for the princess, who, after so muchfatigue, needed rest badly. But the girl declared that she must firstmake her horse comfortable in his stable. but this was really only anexcuse, as she wanted to ask his advice on several matters.But the old woman had suspected from the very first that the boy whohad come to the rescue of her son was a girl in disguise, and told thegenius that she was exactly the wife he needed. The genius scoffed, andinquired what female hand could ever wield a sabre like that. but, inspite of his sneers, his mother persisted, and as a proof of what shesaid, laid at night on each of their pillows a handful of magic flowers,that fade at the touch of man, but remain eternally fresh in the fingersof a woman.It was very clever of her, but unluckily the horse had warned theprincess what to expect, and when the house was silent, she stole verysoftly to the genius's room, and exchanged his faded flowers for thoseshe held. Then she crept back to her own bed and fell fast asleep.At break of day, the old woman ran to see her son, and found, as sheknew she would, a bunch of dead flowers in his hand. She next passedon to the bedside of the princess, who still lay asleep grasping thewithered flowers. But she did not believe any the more that her guestwas a man, and so she told her son. So they put their heads together andlaid another trap for her.After breakfast the genius gave his arm to his guest, and asked her tocome with him into the garden. For some time they walked about lookingat the flowers, the genius all the while pressing her to pick any shefancied. But the princess, suspecting a trap, inquired roughly why theywere wasting the precious hours in the garden, when, as men, they shouldbe in the stables looking after their horses. Then the genius told hismother that she was quite wrong, and his deliverer was certainly a man.But the old woman was not convinced for all that.She would try once more she said, and her son must lead his visitorinto the armoury, where hung every kind of weapon used all over theworld some plain and bare, others ornamented with precious stones andbeg her to make choice of one of them. The princess looked at themclosely, and felt the edges and points of their blades, then she hung ather belt an old sword with a curved blade, that would have done creditto an ancient warrior. After this she informed the genius that she wouldstart early next day and take Sunlight with her.And there was nothing for the mother to do but to submit, though shestill stuck to her own opinion.The princess mounted Sunlight, and touched him with her spur, when theold horse, who was galloping at her side, suddenly said:'Up to this time, mistress, you have obeyed my counsels and all has gonewell. Listen to me once more, and do what I tell you. I am old, and nowthat there is someone to take my place, I will confess it I am afraidthat my strength is not equal to the task that lies before me. Give meleave, therefore, to return home, and do you continue your journey underthe care of my brother. Put your faith in him as you put it in me, andyou will never repent. Wisdom has come early to Sunlight.''Yes, my old comrade, you have served me well. and it is only throughyour help that up to now I have been victorious. So grieved though I amto say farewell, I will obey you yet once more, and will listen to yourbrother as I would to yourself. Only, I must have a proof that he lovesme as well as you do.''How should I not love you?' answered Sunlight. 'how should I not beproud to serve a warrior such as you? Trust me, mistress, and youshall never regret the absence of my brother. I know there will bedifficulties in our path, but we will face them together.'Then, with tears in her eyes, the princess took leave of her old horse,who galloped back to her father.She had ridden only a few miles further, when she saw a golden curllying on the road before her. Checking her horse, she asked whether itwould be better to take it or let it lie.'If you take it,' said Sunlight, 'you will repent, and if you don't, youwill repent too: so take it.' On this the girl dismounted, and pickingup the curl, wound it round her neck for safety.They passed by hills, they passed by mountains, they passed throughvalleys, leaving behind them thick forests, and fields covered withflowers. and at length they reached the court of the over lord.He was sitting on his throne, surrounded by the sons of the otheremperors, who served him as pages. These youths came forward to greettheir new companion, and wondered why they felt so attracted towardshim.However, there was no time for talking and concealing her fright.The princess was led straight up to the throne, and explained, in a lowvoice, the reason of her coming. The emperor received her kindly, anddeclared himself fortunate at finding a vassal so brave and so charming,and begged the princess to remain in attendance on his person.She was, however, very careful in her behaviour towards the other pages,whose way of life did not please her. One day, however, she had beenamusing herself by making sweetmeats, when two of the young princeslooked in to pay her a visit. She offered them some of the food whichwas already on the table, and they thought it so delicious that theyeven licked their fingers so as not to lose a morsel. Of course they didnot keep the news of their discovery to themselves, but told all theircompanions that they had just been enjoying the best supper they hadhad since they were born. And from that moment the princess was left nopeace, till she had promised to cook them all a dinner.Now it happened that, on the very day fixed, all the cooks in the palacebecame intoxicated, and there was no one to make up the fire.When the pages heard of this shocking state of things, they went totheir companion and implored her to come to the rescue.The princess was fond of cooking, and was, besides, very good natured.so she put on an apron and went down to the kitchen without delay. Whenthe dinner was placed before the emperor he found it so nice that he atemuch more than was good for him. The next morning, as soon as he woke,he sent for his head cook, and told him to send up the same dishes asbefore. The cook, seized with fright at this command, which he knew hecould not fulfil, fell on his knees, and confessed the truth.The emperor was so astonished that he forgot to scold, and while he wasthinking over the matter, some of his pages came in and said that theirnew companion had been heard to boast that he knew where Iliane was tobe found the celebrated Iliane of the song which begins:'Golden HairThe fields are green,'and that to their certain knowledge he had a curl of her hair in hispossession.When he heard that, the emperor desired the page to be brought beforehim, and, as soon as the princess obeyed his summons, he said to herabruptly:'Fet Fruners, you have hidden from me the fact that you knew thegolden haired Iliane! Why did you do this? for I have treated you morekindly than all my other pages.'Then, after making the princess show him the golden curl which she woreround her neck, he added: 'Listen to me. unless by some means or otheryou bring me the owner of this lock, I will have your head cut off inthe place where you stand. Now go!'In vain the poor girl tried to explain how the lock of hair came intoher possession. the emperor would listen to nothing, and, bowing low,she left his presence and went to consult Sunlight what she was to do.At his first words she brightened up. 'Do not be afraid, mistress.only last night my brother appeared to me in a dream and told me that agenius had carried off Iliane, whose hair you picked up on the road. ButIliane declares that, before she marries her captor, he must bring her,as a present, the whole stud of mares which belong to her. The genius,half crazy with love, thinks of nothing night and day but how this canbe done, and meanwhile she is quite safe in the island swamps of thesea. Go back to the emperor and ask him for twenty ships filled withprecious merchandise. The rest you shall know by and by.'On hearing this advice, the princess went at once into the emperor'spresence.'May a long life be yours, O Sovereign all mighty!' said she. 'I havecome to tell you that I can do as you command if you will give me twentyships, and load them with the most precious wares in your kingdom.''You shall have all that I possess if you will bring me thegolden haired Iliane,' said the emperor.The ships were soon ready, and the princess entered the largest andfinest, with Sunlight at her side. Then the sails were spread and thevoyage began.For seven weeks the wind blew them straight towards the west, and earlyone morning they caught sight of the island swamps of the sea.They cast anchor in a little bay, and the princess made haste todisembark with Sunlight, but, before leaving the ship, she tied to herbelt a pair of tiny gold slippers, adorned with precious stones. Thenmounting Sunlight, she rode about till she came to several palaces,built on hinges, so that they could always turn towards the sun.The most splendid of these was guarded by three slaves, whose greedyeyes were caught by the glistening gold of the slippers. They hastenedup to the owner of these treasures, and inquired who he was. 'Amerchant,' replied the princess, 'who had somehow missed his road, andlost himself among the island swamps of the sea.'Not knowing if it was proper to receive him or not, the slaves returnedto their mistress and told her all they had seen, but not before she hadcaught sight of the merchant from the roof of her palace. Luckily hergaoler was away, always trying to catch the stud of mares, so for themoment she was free and alone.The slaves told their tale so well that their mistress insisted on goingdown to the shore and seeing the beautiful slippers for herself. Theywere even lovelier than she expected, and when the merchant besought herto come on board, and inspect some that he thought were finer still, hercuriosity was too great to refuse, and she went.Once on board ship, she was so busy turning over all the precious thingsstored there, that she never knew that the sails were spread, and thatthey were flying along with the wind behind them. and when she did know,she rejoiced in her heart, though she pretended to weep and lament atbeing carried captive a second time. Thus they arrived at the court ofthe emperor.They were just about to land, when the mother of the genius stood beforethem. She had learnt that Iliane had fled from her prison in companywith a merchant, and, as her son was absent, had come herself inpursuit. Striding over the blue waters, hopping from wave to wave, onefoot reaching to heaven, and the other planted in the foam, she wasclose at their heels, breathing fire and flame, when they stepped onshore from the ship. One glance told Iliane who the horrible old womanwas, and she whispered hastily to her companion. Without saying a word,the princess swung her into Sunlight's saddle, and leaping up behindher, they were off like a flash.It was not till they drew near the town that the princess stooped andasked Sunlight what they should do. 'Put your hand into my left ear,'said he, 'and take out a sharp stone, which you must throw behind you.'The princess did as she was told, and a huge mountain sprang up behindthem. The mother of the genius began to climb up it, and though theygalloped quickly, she was quicker still.They heard her coming, faster, faster. and again the princess stooped toask what was to be done now. 'Put your hand into my right ear,' saidthe horse, 'and throw the brush you will find there behind you.' Theprincess did so, and a great forest sprang up behind them, and, so thickwere its leaves, that even a wren could not get through. But the oldwoman seized hold of the branches and flung herself like a monkey fromone to the others, and always she drew nearer always, always tilltheir hair was singed by the flames of her mouth.Then, in despair, the princess again bent down and asked if there wasnothing more to be done, and Sunlight replied 'Quick, quick, take offthe betrothal ring on the finger of Iliane and throw it behind you.'This time there sprang up a great tower of stone, smooth as ivory,hard as steel, which reached up to heaven itself. And the mother of thegenius gave a howl of rage, knowing that she could neither climb itnor get through it. But she was not beaten yet, and gathering herselftogether, she made a prodigious leap, which landed her on the top of thetower, right in the middle of Iliane's ring which lay there, and heldher tight. Only her claws could be seen grasping the battlements.All that could be done the old witch did. but the fire that poured fromher mouth never reached the fugitives, though it laid waste the countrya hundred miles round the tower, like the flames of a volcano. Then,with one last effort to free herself, her hands gave way, and, fallingdown to the bottom of the tower, she was broken in pieces.When the flying princess saw what had happened she rode back to thespot, as Sunlight counselled her, and placed her finger on the top ofthe tower, which was gradually shrinking into the earth. In an instantthe tower had vanished as if it had never been, and in its place was thefinger of the princess with a ring round it.The emperor received Iliane with all the respect that was due to her,and fell in love at first sight besides.But this did not seem to please Iliane, whose face was sad as she walkedabout the palace or gardens, wondering how it was that, while othergirls did as they liked, she was always in the power of someone whom shehated.So when the emperor asked her to share his throne Iliane answered:'Noble Sovereign, I may not think of marriage till my stud of horses hasbeen brought me, with their trappings all complete.'When he heard this, the emperor once more sent for Fet Fruners, andsaid:'Fet Fruners, fetch me instantly the stud of mares, with their trappingsall complete. If not, your head shall pay the forfeit.''Mighty Emperor, I kiss your hands! I have but just returned from doingyour bidding, and, behold, you send me on another mission, and stake myhead on its fulfilment, when your court is full of valiant young men,pining to win their spurs. They say you are a just man. then why notentrust this quest to one of them? Where am I to seek these mares that Iam to bring you?''How do I know? They may be anywhere in heaven or earth. but, whereverthey are, you will have to find them.'The princess bowed and went to consult Sunlight. He listened while shetold her tale, and then said:'Fetch quickly nine buffalo skins. smear them well with tar, and laythem on my back. Do not fear. you will succeed in this also. but, in theend, the emperor's desires will be his undoing.'The buffalo skins were soon got, and the princess started off withSunlight. The way was long and difficult, but at length they reached theplace where the mares were grazing. Here the genius who had carried offIliane was wandering about, trying to discover how to capture them, allthe while believing that Iliane was safe in the palace where he had lefther.As soon as she caught sight of him, the princess went up and toldhim that Iliane had escaped, and that his mother, in her effortsto recapture her, had died of rage. At this news a blind fury tookpossession of the genius, and he rushed madly upon the princess, whoawaited his onslaught with perfect calmness. As he came on, with hissabre lifted high in the air, Sunlight bounded right over his head, sothat the sword fell harmless. And when in her turn the princess preparedto strike, the horse sank upon his knees, so that the blade pierced thegenius's thigh.The fight was so fierce that it seemed as if the earth would give wayunder them, and for twenty miles round the beasts in the forests fled totheir caves for shelter. At last, when her strength was almost gone, thegenius lowered his sword for an instant. The princess saw her chance,and, with one swoop of her arm, severed her enemy's head from his body.Still trembling from the long struggle, she turned away, and went to themeadow where the stud were feeding.By the advice of Sunlight, she took care not to let them see her, andclimbed a thick tree, where she could see and hear without being seenherself. Then he neighed, and the mares came galloping up, eager tosee the new comer all but one horse, who did not like strangers, andthought they were very well as they were. As Sunlight stood his ground,well pleased with the attention paid him, this sulky creature suddenlyadvanced to the charge, and bit so violently that had it not been forthe nine buffalo skins Sunlight's last moment would have come. Whenthe fight was ended, the buffalo skins were in ribbons, and the beatenanimal writhing with pain on the grass.Nothing now remained to be done but to drive the whole stud to theemperor's court. So the princess came down from the tree and mountedSunlight, while the stud followed meekly after, the wounded horsebringing up the rear. On reaching the palace, she drove them into ayard, and went to inform the emperor of her arrival.The news was told at once to Iliane, who ran down directly and calledthem to her one by one, each mare by its name. And at the first sight ofher the wounded animal shook itself quickly, and in a moment its woundswere healed, and there was not even a mark on its glossy skin.By this time the emperor, on hearing where she was, joined her in theyard, and at her request ordered the mares to be milked, so that both heand she might bathe in the milk and keep young for ever. But they wouldsuffer no one to come near them, and the princess was commanded toperform this service also.At this, the heart of the girl swelled within her. The hardest taskswere always given to her, and long before the two years were up, shewould be worn out and useless. But while these thoughts passed throughher mind, a fearful rain fell, such as no man remembered before, androse till the mares were standing up to their knees in water. Then assuddenly it stopped, and, behold! the water was ice, which held theanimals firmly in its grasp. And the princess's heart grew light again,and she sat down gaily to milk them, as if she had done it every morningof her life.The love of the emperor for Iliane waxed greater day by day, but shepaid no heed to him, and always had an excuse ready to put off theirmarriage. At length, when she had come to the end of everything shecould think of, she said to him one day: 'Grant me, Sire, just onerequest more, and then I will really marry you. for you have waitedpatiently this long time.''My beautiful dove,' replied the emperor, 'both I and all I possess areyours, so ask your will, and you shall have it.''Get me, then,' she said, 'a flask of the holy water that is kept in alittle church beyond the river Jordan, and I will be your wife.'Then the emperor ordered Fet Fruners to ride without delay to the riverJordan, and to bring back, at whatever cost, the holy water for Iliane.'This, my mistress,' said Sunlight, when she was saddling him, 'is thelast and most difficult of your tasks. But fear nothing, for the hour ofthe emperor has struck.'So they started. and the horse, who was not a wizard for nothing, toldthe princess exactly where she was to look for the holy water.'It stands,' he said, 'on the altar of a little church, and is guardedby a troop of nuns. They never sleep, night or day, but every now andthen a hermit comes to visit them, and from him they learn certainthings it is needful for them to know. When this happens, only one ofthe nuns remains on guard at a time, and if we are lucky enough to hitupon this moment, we may get hold of the vase at once. if not, we shallhave to wait the arrival of the hermit, however long it may be. forthere is no other means of obtaining the holy water.'They came in sight of the church beyond the Jordan, and, to their greatjoy, beheld the hermit just arriving at the door. They could hear himcalling the nuns around him, and saw them settle themselves under atree, with the hermit in their midst all but one, who remained onguard, as was the custom.The hermit had a great deal to say, and the day was very hot, so thenun, tired of sitting by herself, lay down right across the threshold,and fell sound asleep.Then Sunlight told the princess what she was to do, and the girl steppedsoftly over the sleeping nun, and crept like a cat along the dark aisle,feeling the wall with her fingers, lest she should fall over somethingand ruin it all by a noise. But she reached the altar in safety, andfound the vase of holy water standing on it. This she thrust into herdress, and went back with the same care as she came. With a bound shewas in the saddle, and seizing the reins bade Sunlight take her home asfast as his legs could carry him.The sound of the flying hoofs aroused the nun, who understood instantlythat the precious treasure was stolen, and her shrieks were so loud andpiercing that all the rest came flying to see what was the matter. Thehermit followed at their heels, but seeing it was impossible to overtakethe thief, he fell on his knees and called his most deadly curse down onher head, praying that if the thief was a man, he might become a woman.and if she was a woman, that she might become a man. In either case hethought that the punishment would be severe.But punishments are things about which people do not always agree, andwhen the princess suddenly felt she was really the man she had pretendedto be, she was delighted, and if the hermit had only been within reachshe would have thanked him from her heart.By the time she reached the emperor's court, Fet Fruners looked a youngman all over in the eyes of everyone. and even the mother of the geniuswould now have had her doubts set at rest. He drew forth the vase fromhis tunic and held it up to the emperor, saying: 'Mighty Sovereign, allhail! I have fulfilled this task also, and I hope it is the last youhave for me. let another now take his turn.''I am content, Fet Fruners,' replied the emperor, 'and when I am dead itis you who will sit upon my throne. for I have yet no son to come afterme. But if one is given me, and my dearest wish is accomplished, thenyou shall be his right hand, and guide him with your counsels.'But though the emperor was satisfied, Iliane was not, and she determinedto revenge herself on the emperor for the dangers which he had causedFet Fruners to run. And as for the vase of holy water, she thought that,in common politeness, her suitor ought to have fetched it himself, whichhe could have done without any risk at all.So she ordered the great bath to be filled with the milk of her mares,and begged the emperor to clothe himself in white robes, and enter thebath with her, an invitation he accepted with joy. Then, when both werestanding with the milk reaching to their necks, she sent for the horsewhich had fought Sunlight, and made a secret sign to him. The horseunderstood what he was to do, and from one nostril he breathed freshair over Iliane, and from the other, he snorted a burning wind whichshrivelled up the emperor where he stood, leaving only a little heap ofashes.His strange death, which no one could explain, made a great sensationthroughout the country, and the funeral his people gave him was themost splendid ever known. When it was over, Iliane summoned Fet Frunersbefore her, and addressed him thus:'Fet Fruners! it is you who brought me and have saved my life, andobeyed my wishes. It is you who gave me back my stud. you who killed thegenius, and the old witch his mother. you who brought me the holy water.And you, and none other, shall be my husband.''Yes, I will marry you,' said the young man, with a voice almost as softas when he was a princess. 'But know that in OUR house, it will be thecock who sings and not the hen!'(From Sept Contes Roumains, Jules Brun and Leo Bachelin.)