To conclude this article, and my book, I shall transcribe a foreign piece of superstition, firmly believed in many parts of France, Germany, and Spain. The account of it, and the mode of preparation, appears to have been given by a judge. In the latter, there is a striking resemblance to the charm in Macbeth.Of the hand of glory, which is made use of by housebreakers, to enter into houses at night, without fear of opposition.I acknowledge that I never tried the secret of the hand of glory, but I have thrice assisted at the definitive judgment of certain criminals, who, under the torture, confessed having used it. Being asked what it was, how they procured it, and what were its uses and properties, they answered, first, that the use of the hand of glory was to stupify those to whom it was presented, and to render them motionless, insomuch that they could not stir, any more than if they were dead. secondly, that it was the hand of a hanged man. and thirdly, that it must be prepared in the manner following:Take the hand, left or right, of a person hanged, and exposed on the highway. wrap it up in a piece of a shroud, or winding sheet, in which let it be well squeezed, to get out any small quantity of blood that may have remained in it. then put it into an earthen vessel, with zimat, saltpeter, salt, and long pepper, the whole well powdered. leave if fifteen days in that vessel. afterwards take it out, and expose it to the noontide sun in the dog days, till it is thoroughly dry. and if the sun is not sufficient, put it into an oven heated with fern and vervain. then compose a kind of candle with the fat of a hanged man, virgin wax, and sisame (sesame) of Lapland.The hand of glory is used as a candlestick to hold this candle, when lighted. Its properties are, that wheresoever anyone goes with this dreadful instrument, the persons to whom it is presented will be deprived of all power of motion.On being asked if there was no remedy, or antidote, to counteract this charm, they said the hand of glory would cease to take effect, and thieves could not make use of it, if the threshold of the door of the house, and other places by which they might enter, were anointed with an unguent composed of the gall of a black cat, the fat of a white hen, and the blood of a screech owl. which mixture must necessarily be prepared during the dog days.