On the shores of the west, where the great hills stand with their feetin the sea, dwelt a goatherd and his wife, together with their threesons and one daughter. All day long the young men fished and hunted,while their sister took out the kids to pasture on the mountain, orstayed at home helping her mother and mending the nets.For several years they all lived happily together, when one day, as thegirl was out on the hill with the kids, the sun grew dark and an aircold as a thick white mist came creeping, creeping up from the sea.She rose with a shiver, and tried to call to her kids, but the voicedied away in her throat, and strong arms seemed to hold her.Loud were the wails in the hut by the sea when the hours passed on andthe maiden came not. Many times the father and brothers jumped up,thinking they heard her steps, but in the thick darkness they couldscarcely see their own hands, nor could they tell where the river lay,nor where the mountain. One by one the kids came home, and at everybleat someone hurried to open the door, but no sound broke thestillness. Through the night no one slept, and when morning broke andthe mist rolled back, they sought the maiden by sea and by land, butnever a trace of her could be found anywhere.Thus a year and a day slipped by, and at the end of it Gorla of theFlocks and his wife seemed suddenly to have grown old. Their sons toowere sadder than before, for they loved their sister well, and hadnever ceased to mourn for her. At length Ardan the eldest spoke andsaid:'It is now a year and a day since our sister was taken from us, and wehave waited in grief and patience for her to return. Surely some evilhas befallen her, or she would have sent us a token to put our heartsat rest. and I have vowed to myself that my eyes shall not know sleeptill, living or dead, I have found her.''If you have vowed, then must you keep your vow,' answered Gorla. 'Butbetter had it been if you had first asked your father's leave beforeyou made it. Yet, since it is so, your mother will bake you a cake foryou to carry with you on your journey. Who can tell how long it maybe?'So the mother arose and baked not one cake but two, a big one and alittle one.'Choose, my son,' said she. 'Will you have the little cake with yourmother's blessing, or the big one without it, in that you have setaside your father and taken on yourself to make a vow?''I will have the large cake,' answered the youth. 'for what good wouldmy mother's blessing do for me if I was dying of hunger?' And takingthe big cake he went his way.Straight on he strode, letting neither hill nor river hinder him.Swiftly he walked  swiftly as the wind that blew down the mountain.The eagles and the gulls looked on from their nests as he passed,leaving the deer behind him. but at length he stopped, for hunger hadseized on him, and he could walk no more. Trembling with fatigue hesat himself on a rock and broke a piece off his cake.'Spare me a morsel, Ardan son of Gorla,' asked a raven, fluttering downtowards him.'Seek food elsewhere, O bearer of ill news,' answered Ardan son ofGorla. 'it is but little I have for myself.' And he stretched himselfout for a few moments, then rose to his feet again. On and on went hetill the little birds flew to their nests, and the brightness died outof the sky, and a darkness fell over the earth. On and on, and on,till at last he saw a beam of light streaming from a house and hastenedtowards it.The door was opened and he entered, but paused when he beheld an oldman lying on a bench by the fire, while seated opposite him was amaiden combing out the locks of her golden hair with a comb of silver.'Welcome, fair youth,' said the old man, turning his head. 'Sit downand warm yourself, and tell me how fares the outer world. It is longsince I have seen it.''All my news is that I am seeking service,' answered Ardan son ofGorla. 'I have come from far since sunrise, and glad was I to see therays of your lamp stream into the darkness.''I need someone to herd my three dun cows, which are hornless,' saidthe old man. 'If, for the space of a year, you can bring them back tome each evening before the sun sets, I will make you payment that willsatisfy your soul.'But here the girl looked up and answered quickly:'Ill will come of it if he listens to your offer.''Counsel unsought is worth nothing,' replied, rudely, Ardan son ofGorla. 'It would be little indeed that I am fit for if I cannot drivethree cows out to pasture and keep them safe from the wolves that maycome down from the mountains. Therefore, good father, I will takeservice with you at daybreak, and ask no payment till the new yeardawns.'Next morning the bell of the deer was not heard amongst the fern beforethe maiden with the hair of gold had milked the cows, and led them infront of the cottage where the old man and Ardan son of Gorla awaitedthem.'Let them wander where they will,' he said to his servant, 'and neverseek to turn them from their way, for well they know the fields of goodpasture. But take heed to follow always behind them, and suffernothing that you see, and nought that you hear, to draw you intoleaving them. Now go, and may wisdom go with you.'As he ceased speaking he touched one of the cows on her forehead, andshe stepped along the path, with the two others one on each side. Ashe had been bidden, behind them came Ardan son of Gorla, rejoicing inhis heart that work so easy had fallen to his lot. At the year's end,thought he, enough money would lie in his pocket to carry him into farcountries where his sister might be, and, in the meanwhile, someonemight come past who could give him tidings of her.Thus he spoke to himself, when his eyes fell on a golden cock and asilver hen running swiftly along the grass in front of him. In amoment the words that the old man had uttered vanished from his mindand he gave chase. They were so near that he could almost seize theirtails, yet each time he felt sure he could catch them his fingersclosed on the empty air. At length he could run no more, and stoppedto breathe, while the cock and hen went on as before. Then heremembered the cows, and, somewhat frightened, turned back to seekthem. Luckily they had not strayed far, and were quietly feeding onthe thick green grass.Ardan son of Gorla was sitting under a tree, when he beheld a staff ofgold and a staff of silver doubling themselves in strange ways on themeadow in front of him, and starting up he hastened towards them. Hefollowed them till he was tired, but he could not catch them, thoughthey seemed ever within his reach. When at last he gave up the questhis knees trembled beneath him for very weariness, and glad was he tosee a tree growing close by lade with fruits of different sorts, ofwhich he ate greedily.The sun was by now low in the heavens, and the cows left off feeding,and turned their faces home again, followed by Ardan son of Gorla. Atthe door of their stable the maiden stood awaiting them, and sayingnought to their herd, she sat down and began to milk. But it was notmilk that flowed into her pail. instead it was filled with a thinstream of water, and as she rose up from the last cow the old manappeared outside.'Faithless one, you have betrayed your trust!' he said to Ardan son ofGorla. 'Not even for one day could you keep true! Well, you shallhave your reward at once, that others may take warning from you.' Andwaving his wand he touched with it the chest of the youth, who became apillar of stone.Now Gorla of the Flocks and his wife were full of grief that they hadlost a son as well as a daughter, for no tidings had come to them ofArdan their eldest born. At length, when two years and two days hadpassed since the maiden had led her kids to feed on the mountain andhad been seen no more, Ruais, second son of Gorla, rose up one morning,and said:'Time is long without my sister and Ardan my brother. So I have vowedto seek them wherever they may be.'And his father answered:'Better it had been if you had first asked my consent and that of yourmother. but as you have vowed so must you do.' Then he bade his wifemake a cake, but instead she made two, and offered Ruais his choice, asshe had done to Ardan. Like Ardan, Ruais chose the large, unblessedcake, and set forth on his way, doing always, though he knew it not,that which Ardan had done. so, needless is it to tell what befell himtill he too stood, a pillar of stone, on the hill behind the cottage,so that all men might see the fate that awaited those who broke theirfaith.Another year and a day passed by, when Covan the Brown haired, youngestson of Gorla of the Flocks, one morning spake to his parents, saying:'It is more than three years since my sister left us. My brothers havealso gone, no one know whither, and of us four none remains but I. No,therefore, I long to seek them, and I pray you and my mother to placeno hindrance in my way.'And his father answered:'Go, then, and take our blessing with you.'So the wife of Gorla of the Flocks baked two cakes, one large and onesmall. and Covan took the small one, and started on his quest. In thewood he felt hungry, for he had walked far, and he sat down to eat.Suddenly a voice behind him cried:'A bit for me! a bit for me!' And looking round he beheld the blackraven of the wilderness.'Yes, you shall have a bit,' said Covan the Brown haired. and breakingoff a piece he stretched it upwards to the raven, who ate it greedily.Then Covan arose and went forward, till he saw the light from thecottage streaming before him, and glad was he, for night was at hand.'Maybe I shall find some work there,' he thought, 'and at least I shallgain money to help me in my search. for who knows how far my sister andmy brothers may have wandered?'The door stood open and he entered, and the old man gave him welcome,and the golden  haired maiden likewise. As happened before, he wasoffered by the old man to herd his cows. and, as she had done to hisbrothers, the maiden counselled him to leave such work alone. But,instead of answering rudely, like both Ardan and Ruais, he thanked her,with courtesy, though he had no mind to heed her. and he listened tothe warnings and words of his new master.Next day he set forth at dawn with the dun cows in front of him, andfollowed patiently wherever they might lead him. On the way he saw thegold cock and silver hen, which ran even closer to him than they haddone to his brothers. Sorely tempted, he longed to give them chase.but, remembering in time that he had been bidden to look neither to theright nor to the left, with a mighty effort he turned his eyes away.Then the gold and silver staffs seemed to spring from the earth beforehim, but this time also he overcame. and though the fruit from themagic tree almost touched his mouth, he brushed it aside and wentsteadily on.That day the cows wandered father than ever they had done before, andnever stopped till they had reached a moor where the heather wasburning. The fire was fierce, but the cows took no heed, and walkedsteadily through it, Covan the Brown haired following them. Next theyplunged into a foaming river, and Covan plunged in after them, thoughthe water came high above his waist. On the other side of the riverlay a wide plain, and here the cows lay down, while Covan looked abouthim. Near him was a house built of yellow stone, and from it camesweet songs, and Covan listened, and his heart grew light within him.While he was thus waiting there ran up to him a youth, scarcely able tospeak so swiftly had he sped. and he cried aloud:'Hasten, hasten, Covan the Brown haired, for your cows are in the corn,and you must drive them out!''Nay,' said Covan smiling, 'it had been easier for you to have driventhem out than to come here to tell me.' And he went on listening tothe music.Very soon the same youth returned and cried with panting breath:'Out upon you, Covan son of Gorla, that you stand there agape. For ourdogs are chasing your cows, and you must drive them off!''Nay, then,' answered Covan as before, 'it had been easier for you tocall off your dogs than to come here to tell me.' And he stayed wherehe was till the music ceased.Then he turned to look for the cows, and found them all lying in theplace where he had left them. but when they saw Covan they rose up andwalked homewards, taking a different path to that they had trod in themorning. This time they passed over a plain so bare that a pin couldnot have lain there unnoticed, yet Covan beheld with surprise a foaland its mother feeding there, both as fat as if they had pastured onthe richest grass. Further on they crossed another plain, where thegrass was thick and green, but on it were feeding a foal and itsmother, so lean that you could have counted their ribs. And furtheragain the path led them by the shores of a lake whereon were floatingtwo boats. one full of gay and happy youths, journeying to the land ofthe Sun, and another with grim shapes clothed in black, travelling tothe land of Night.'What can these things mean?' said Covan to himself, as he followed hiscows.Darkness now fell, the wind howled, and torrents of rain poured uponthem. Covan knew not how far they might yet have to go, or indeed ifthey were on the right road. He could not even see his cows, and hisheart sank lest, after all, he should have failed to bring them safelyback. What was he to do?He waited thus, for he could go neither forwards nor backwards, till hefelt a great friendly paw laid on his shoulder.'My cave is just here,' said the Dog of Maol  mor, of whom Covan son ofGorla had heard much. 'Spend the night here, and you shall be fed onthe flesh of lamb, and shall lay aside three thirds of thy weariness.'And Covan entered, and supped, and slept, and in the morning rose up anew man.'Farewell, Covan,' said the Dog of Maol mor. 'May success go with you,for you took what I had to give and did not mock me. So, when dangeris your companion, wish for me, and I will not fail you.'At these words the Dog of Maol mor disappeared into the forest, andCovan went to seek his cows, which were standing in the hollow wherethe darkness had come upon them.At the sight of Covan the Brown haired they walked onwards, Covanfollowing ever behind them, and looking neither to the right nor to theleft. All that day they walked, and when night fell they were in abarren plain, with only rocks for shelter.'We must rest here as best we can,' spoke Covan to the cows. And theybowed their heads and lay down in the place where they stood. Thencame the black raven of Corri  nan creag, whose eyes never closed, andwhose wings never tired. and he fluttered before the face of Covan andtold him that he knew of a cranny in the rock where there was food inplenty, and soft moss for a bed.'Go with me thither,' he said to Covan, 'and you shall lay asidethree thirds of your weariness, and depart in the morning refreshed,'and Covan listened thankfully to his words, and at dawn he rose up toseek his cows.'Farewell!' cried the black raven. 'You trusted me, and took all I hadto offer in return for the food you once gave me. So if in time tocome you need a friend, wish for me, and I will not fail you.'As before, the cows were standing in the spot where he had left them,ready to set out. All that day they walked, on and on, and on, Covanson of Gorla walking behind them, till night fell while they were onthe banks of a river.'We can go no further,' spake Covan to the cows. And they began to eatthe grass by the side of the stream, while Covan listened to them andlonged for some supper also, for they had travelled far, and his limbswere weak under him. Then there was a swish of water at his feet, andout peeped the head of the famous otter Doran donn of the stream.'Trust to me and I will find you warmth and shelter,' said Doran donn.'and for food fish in plenty.' And Covan went with him thankfully, andate and rested, and laid aside three thirds of his weariness. Atsunrise he left his bed of dried sea weed, which had floated up withthe tide, and with a grateful heart bade farewell to Doran donn.'Because you trusted me and took what I had to offer, you have made meyour friend, Covan,' said Doran donn. 'And if you should be in danger,and need help from one who can swim a river or dive beneath a wave,call to me and I will come to you.' Then he plunged into the stream,and was seen no more.The cows were standing ready in the place where Covan had left them,and they journeyed on all that day, till, when night fell, they reachedthe cottage. Joyful indeed was the old man as the cows went into theirstables, and he beheld the rich milk that flowed into the pail of thegolden haired maiden with the silver comb.'You have done well indeed,' he said to Covan son of Gorla. 'And now,what would you have as a reward?''I want nothing for myself,' answered Covan the Brown haired. 'but Iask you to give me back my brothers and my sister who have been lost tous for three years past. You are wise and know the lore of fairies andof witches. tell me where I can find them, and what I must do to bringthem to life again.'The old man looked grave at the words of Covan.'Yes, truly I know where they are,' answered he, 'and I say not thatthey may not be brought to life again. But the perils are great toogreat for you to overcome.''Tell me what they are,' said Covan again, 'and I shall know better ifI may overcome them.''Listen, then, and judge. In the mountain yonder there dwells a roe,white of foot, with horns that branch like the antlers of a deer. Onthe lake that leads to the land of the Sun floats a duck whose body isgreen and whose neck is of gold. In the pool of Corri  Bui swims asalmon with a skin that shines like silver, and whose gills arered bring them all to me, and then you shall know where dwell yourbrothers and your sister!''To morrow at cock crow I will begone!' answered Covan.The way to the mountain lay straight before him, and when he hadclimbed high he caught sight of the roe with the white feet and thespotted sides, on the peak in front.Full of hope he set out in pursuit of her, but by the time he hadreached that peak she had left it and was to be seen on another. Andso it always happened, and Covan's courage had well nigh failed him,when the thought of the Dog of Maol mor darted into his mind.'Oh, that he was here!' he cried. And looking up he saw him.'Why did you summon me?' asked the Dog of Maol mor. And when Covan hadtold him of his trouble, and how the roe always led him further andfurther, the Dog only answered:'Fear nothing. I will soon catch her for you.' And in a short while helaid the roe unhurt at Covan's feet.'What will you wish me to do with her?' said the Dog. And Covananswered:'The old man bade me bring her, and the duck with the golden neck, andthe salmon with the silver sides, to his cottage. if I shall catchthem, I know not. But carry you the roe to the back of the cottage,and tether her so that she cannot escape.''It shall be done,' said the Dog of Maol mor.Then Covan sped to the lake which led to the land of the Sun, where theduck with the green body and the golden neck was swimming among thewater lilies.'Surely I can catch him, good swimmer as I am,' to himself. But, if hecould swim well, the duck could swim better, and at length his strengthfailed him, and he was forced to seek the land.'Oh that the black raven were here to help me!' he thought to himself.And in a moment the black raven was perched on his shoulder.'How can I help you?' asked the raven. And Covan answered:'Catch me the green duck that floats on the water.' And the raven flewwith his strong wings and picked him up in his strong beak, and inanother moment the bird was laid at the feet of Covan.This time it was easy for the young man to carry his prize, and aftergiving thanks to the raven for his aid, he went on to the river.In the deep dark pool of which the old man had spoken the silver sidedsalmon was lying under a rock.'Surely I, good fisher as I am, can catch him,' said Covan son ofGorla. And cutting a slender pole from a bush, he fastened a line tothe end of it. But cast with what skill he might, it availed nothing,for the salmon would not even look at the bait.'I am beaten at last, unless the Doran donn can deliver me,' he cried.And as he spoke there was a swish of the water, and the face of theDoran donn looked up at him.'O catch me, I pray you, that salmon under the rock!' said Covan son ofGorla. And the Doran donn dived, and laying hold of the salmon by histail, bore it back to the place where Covan was standing.'The roe, and the duck, and the salmon are here,' said Covan to the oldman, when he reached the cottage. And the old man smiled on him andbade him eat and drink, and after he hungered no more, he would speakwith him.And this was what the old man said: 'You began well, my son, so thingshave gone well with you. You set store by your mother's blessing,therefore you have been blest. You gave food to the raven when ithungered, you were true to the promise you had made to me, and did notsuffer yourself to be turned aside by vain shows. You were skilled toperceive that the boy who tempted you to leave the temple was a tellerof false tales, and took with a grateful heart what the poor had tooffer you. Last of all, difficulties gave you courage, instead oflending you despair.And now, as to your reward, you shall in truth take your sister homewith you, and your brothers I will restore to life. but idle andunfaithful as they are their lot is to wander for ever. And sofarewell, and may wisdom be with you.''First tell me your name?' asked Covan softly.'I am the Spirit of Age,' said the old man.