Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole, watching the roadthat ran by at a little distance, and hoping to see something that mightamuse him, for he was feeling very dull and rather cross. For a longwhile he watched in vain. everything seemed asleep, and not even abird stirred overhead. The fox grew crosser than ever, and he was justturning away in disgust from his place when he heard the sound of feetcoming over the snow. He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the roadand said to himself: 'I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend tobe dead! This is a man driving a reindeer sledge, I know the tinklingof the harness. And at any rate I shall have an adventure, and that isalways something!'So he stretched himself out by the side of the road, carefully choosinga spot where the driver could not help seeing him, yet where thereindeer would not tread on him. and all fell out just as he hadexpected. The sledge driver pulled up sharply, as his eyes lighted onthe beautiful animal lying stiffly beside him, and jumping out he threwthe fox into the bottom of the sledge, where the goods he was carryingwere bound tightly together by ropes. The fox did not move a musclethough his bones were sore from the fall, and the driver got back to hisseat again and drove on merrily.But before they had gone very far, the fox, who was near the edge,contrived to slip over, and when the Laplander saw him stretched out onthe snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the othersledges that was fastened behind, for it was market day at the nearesttown, and the man had much to sell.They drove on a little further, when some noise in the forest made theman turn his head, just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thumpon to the frozen snow. 'That beast is bewitched!' he said to himself,and then he threw the fox into the last sledge of all, which had a cargoof fishes. This was exactly what the cunning creature wanted, and hewriggled gently to the front and bit the cord which tied the sledgeto the one before it so that it remained standing in the middle of theroad.Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a longwhile that one was missing. indeed, he would have entered the townwithout knowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall. Then he got downto secure more firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry, and going tothe end of the long row, discovered that the sledge containing the fishand the fox was missing. He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer androde back along the way he had come, to find the sledge standing safe inthe middle of the road. but as the fox had bitten off the cord close tothe noose there was no means of moving it away.The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily. As soon as he hadloosened the sledge, he had taken his favourite fish from among thepiles neatly arranged for sale, and had trotted off to the forest withit in his mouth. By and by he met a bear, who stopped and said: 'Wheredid you find that fish, Mr. Fox?''Oh, not far off,' answered he. 'I just stuck my tail in the streamclose by the place where the elves dwell, and the fish hung on to it ofitself.''Dear me,' snarled the bear, who was hungry and not in a good temper,'if the fish hung on to your tail, I suppose he will hang on to mine.''Yes, certainly, grandfather,' replied the fox, 'if you have patience tosuffer what I suffered.''Of course I can,' replied the bear, 'what nonsense you talk! Show methe way.'So the fox led him to the bank of a stream, which, being in a warmplace, had only lightly frozen in places, and was at this momentglittering in the spring sunshine.'The elves bathe here,' he said, 'and if you put in your tail the fishwill catch hold of it. But it is no use being in a hurry, or you willspoil everything.'Then he trotted off, but only went out of sight of the bear, who stoodstill on the bank with his tail deep in the water. Soon the sun set andit grew very cold and the ice formed rapidly, and the bear's tail wasfixed as tight as if a vice had held it. and when the fox saw thateverything had happened just as he had planned it, he called out loudly:'Be quick, good people, and come with your bows and spears. A bear hasbeen fishing in your brook!'And in a moment the whole place was full of little creatures each onewith a tiny bow and a spear hardly big enough for a baby. but botharrows and spears could sting, as the bear knew very well, and in hisfright he gave such a tug to his tail that it broke short off, and herolled away into the forest as fast as his legs could carry him. At thissight the fox held his sides for laughing, and then scampered away inanother direction. By and by he came to a fir tree, and crept into ahole under the root. After that he did something very strange.Taking one of his hind feet between his two front paws, he said softly:'What would you do, my foot, if someone was to betray me?''I would run so quickly that he should not catch you.''What would you do, mine ear, if someone was to betray me?''I would listen so hard that I should hear all his plans.''What would you do, my nose, if someone was to betray me?''I would smell so sharply that I should know from afar that he wascoming.''What would you do, my tail, if someone was to betray me?''I would steer you so straight a course that you would soon be beyondhis reach. Let us be off. I feel as if danger was near.'But the fox was comfortable where he was, and did not hurry himself totake his tail's advice. And before very long he found he was too late,for the bear had come round by another path, and guessing where hisenemy was began to scratch at the roots of the tree. The fox madehimself as small as he could, but a scrap of his tail peeped out, andthe bear seized it and held it tight. Then the fox dug his claws intothe ground, but he was not strong enough to pull against the bear, andslowly he was dragged forth and his body flung over the bear's neck. Inthis manner they set out down the road, the fox's tail being always inthe bear's mouth.After they had gone some way, they passed a tree stump, on which abright coloured woodpecker was tapping.'Ah! those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gaycolours,' sighed the fox.'What are you saying, old fellow?' asked the bear.'I? Oh, I was saying nothing,' answered the fox drearily. 'Just carry meto your cave and eat me up as quick as you can.'The bear was silent, and thought of his supper. and the two continuedtheir journey till they reached another tree with a woodpecker tappingon it.'Ah! those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gaycolours,' said the fox again to himself.'Couldn't you paint me too?' asked the bear suddenly.But the fox shook his head. for he was always acting, even if no one wasthere to see him do it.'You bear pain so badly,' he replied, in a thoughtful voice, 'andyou are impatient besides, and could never put up with all that isnecessary. Why, you would first have to dig a pit, and then twist ropesof willow, and drive in posts and fill the hole with pitch, and, last ofall, set it on fire. Oh, no. you would never be able to do all that.''It does not matter a straw how hard the work is,' answered the beareagerly, 'I will do it every bit.' And as he spoke he began tearing upthe earth so fast that soon a deep pit was ready, deep enough to holdhim.'That is all right,' said the fox at last, 'I see I was mistaken in you.Now sit here, and I will bind you.' So the bear sat down on the edgeof the pit, and the fox sprang on his back, which he crossed with thewillow ropes, and then set fire to the pitch. It burnt up in an instant,and caught the bands of willow and the bear's rough hair. but he did notstir, for he thought that the fox was rubbing the bright colours intohis skin, and that he would soon be as beautiful as a whole meadow offlowers. But when the fire grew hotter still he moved uneasily from onefoot to the other, saying, imploringly: 'It is getting rather warm, oldman.' But all the answer he got was: 'I thought you would never be ableto suffer pain like those little birds.'The bear did not like being told that he was not as brave as a bird,so he set his teeth and resolved to endure anything sooner than speakagain. but by this time the last willow band had burned through, andwith a push the fox sent his victim tumbling into the grass, and ranoff to hide himself in the forest. After a while he stole cautiously andfound, as he expected, nothing left but a few charred bones. These hepicked up and put in a bag, which he slung over his back.By and by he met a Lapp driving his team of reindeer along the road, andas he drew near, the fox rattled the bones gaily.'That sounds like silver or gold,' thought the man to himself. And hesaid politely to the fox:'Good day, friend! What have you got in your bag that makes such astrange sound?''All the wealth my father left me,' answered the fox. 'Do you feelinclined to bargain?''Well, I don't mind,' replied the Lapp, who was a prudent man, and didnot wish the fox to think him too eager. 'but show me first what moneyyou have got.''Ah, but I can't do that,' answered the fox, 'my bag is sealed up. Butif you will give me those three reindeer, you shall take it as it is,with all its contents.'The Lapp did not quite like it, but the fox spoke with such an air thathis doubts melted away. He nodded, and stretched out his hand. the foxput the bag into it, and unharnassed the reindeer he had chosen.'Oh, I forgot!' he exclaimed, turning round, as he was about to drivethem in the opposite direction, 'you must be sure not to open the baguntil you have gone at least five miles, right on the other side ofthose hills out there. If you do, you will find that all the gold andsilver has changed into a parcel of charred bones.' Then he whipped uphis reindeer, and was soon out of sight.For some time the Lapp was satisfied with hearing the bones rattle,and thinking to himself what a good bargain he had made, and of all thethings he would buy with the money. But, after a bit, this amusementceased to content him, and besides, what was the use of planning whenyou did not know for certain how rich you were? Perhaps there might be agreat deal of silver and only a little gold in the bag. or a great dealof gold, and only a little silver. Who could tell? He would not, ofcourse, take the money out to count it, for that might bring him badluck. But there could be no harm in just one peep! So he slowly brokethe seal, and untied the strings, and, behold, a heap of burnt bones laybefore him! In a minute he knew he had been tricked, and flingingthe bag to the ground in a rage, he ran after the fox as fast as hissnow shoes would carry him.Now the fox had guessed exactly what would happen, and was on the lookout. Directly he saw the little speck coming towards him, he wished thatthe man's snow shoes might break, and that very instant the Lapp's shoessnapped in two. The Lapp did now know that this was the fox's work, buthe had to stop and fetch one of his other reindeer, which he mounted,and set off again in pursuit of his enemy. The fox soon heard himcoming, and this time he wished that the reindeer might fall and breakits leg. And so it did. and the man felt it was a hopeless chase, andthat he was no match for the fox.So the fox drove on in peace till he reached the cave where all hisstores were kept, and then he began to wonder whom he could get to helphim kill his reindeer, for though he could steal reindeer he was toosmall to kill them. 'After all, it will be quite easy,' thought he,and he bade a squirrel, who was watching him on a tree close by, take amessage to all the robber beasts of the forest, and in less than half anhour a great crashing of branches was heard, and bears, wolves, snakes,mice, frogs, and other creatures came pressing up to the cave.When they heard why they had been summoned, they declared themselvesready each one to do his part. The bear took his crossbow from his neckand shot the reindeer in the chin. and, from that day to this, everyreindeer has a mark in that same spot, which is always known as thebear's arrow. The wolf shot him in the thigh, and the sign of his arrowstill remains. and so with the mouse and the viper and all the rest,even the frog. and at the last the reindeer all died. And the fox didnothing, but looked on.'I really must go down to the brook and wash myself,' said he (though hewas perfectly clean), and he went under the bank and hid himself behinda stone. From there he set up the most frightful shrieks, so that theanimals fled away in all directions. Only the mouse and the ermineremained where they were, for they thought that they were much too smallto be noticed.The fox continued his shrieks till he felt sure that the animals musthave got to a safe distance. then he crawled out of his hiding place andwent to the bodies of the reindeer, which he now had all to himself. Hegathered a bundle of sticks for a fire, and was just preparing to cooka steak, when his enemy, the Lapp, came up, panting with haste andexcitement.'What are you doing there?' cried he. 'why did you palm off those boneson me? And why, when you had got the reindeer, did you kill them?''Dear brother,' answered the fox with a sob, 'do not blame me forthis misfortune. It is my comrades who have slain them in spite of myprayers.'The man made no reply, for the white fur of the ermine, who wascrouching with the mouse behind some stones, had just caught his eye.He hastily seized the iron hook which hung over the fire and flung it atthe little creature. but the ermine was too quick for him, and the hookonly touched the top of its tail, and that has remained black to thisday. As for the mouse, the Lapp threw a half burnt stick after him,and though it was not enough to hurt him, his beautiful white skin wassmeared all over with it, and all the washing in the world would notmake him clean again. And the man would have been wiser if he had letthe ermine and the mouse alone, for when he turned round again he foundhe was alone.Directly the fox noticed that his enemy's attention had wandered fromhimself he watched his chance, and stole softly away till he had reacheda clump of thick bushes, when he ran as fast as he could, till hereached a river, where a man was mending his boat.'Oh, I wish, I wish, I had a boat to mend too!' he cried, sitting up onhis hind legs and looking into the man's face.'Stop your silly chatter!' answered the man crossly, 'or I will give youa bath in the river.''Oh, I wish, I do wish, I had a boat to mend,' cried the fox again, asif he had not heard. And the man grew angry and seized him by the tail,and threw him far out in the stream close to the edge of an island.which was just what the fox wanted. He easily scrambled up, and sittingon the top, he called: 'Hasten, hasten, O fishes, and carry me tothe other side!' And the fishes left the stones where they had beensleeping, and the pools where they had been feeding, and hurried to seewho could get to the island first.'I have won,' shouted the pike. 'Jump on my back, dear fox, and you willfind yourself in a trice on the opposite shore.''No, thank you,' answered the fox, 'your back is much too weak for me. Ishould break it.''Try mine,' said the eel, who had wriggled to the front.'No, thank you,' replied the fox again, 'I should slip over your headand be drowned.''You won't slip on MY back,' said the perch, coming forward.'No. but you are really TOO rough,' returned the fox.'Well, you can have no fault to find with ME,' put in the trout.'Good gracious! are YOU here?' exclaimed the fox. 'But I'm afraid totrust myself to you either.'At this moment a fine salmon swam slowly up.'Ah, yes, you are the person I want,' said the fox. 'but come near, sothat I may get on your back, without wetting my feet.'So the salmon swam close under the island, and when he was touching itthe fox seized him in his claws and drew him out of the water, and puthim on a spit, while he kindled a fire to cook him by. When everythingwas ready, and the water in the pot was getting hot, he popped himin, and waited till he thought the salmon was nearly boiled. But as hestooped down the water gave a sudden fizzle, and splashed into the fox'seyes, blinding him. He started backwards with a cry of pain, and satstill for some minutes, rocking himself to and fro. When he was a littlebetter he rose and walked down a road till he met a grouse, who stoppedand asked what was the matter.'Have you a pair of eyes anywhere about you?' asked the fox politely.'No, I am afraid I haven't,' answered the grouse, and passed on.A little while after the fox heard the buzzing of an early bee, whom agleam of sun had tempted out.'Do you happen to have an extra pair of eyes anywhere?' asked the fox.'I am sorry to say I have only those I am using,' replied the bee. Andthe fox went on till he nearly fell over an asp who was gliding acrossthe road.'I should be SO glad if you would tell me where I could get a pair ofeyes,' said the fox. 'I suppose you don't happen to have any you couldlend me?''Well, if you only want them for a short time, perhaps I could manage,'answered the asp. 'but I can't do without them for long.''Oh, it is only for a very short time that I need them,' said the fox.'I have a pair of my own just behind that hill, and when I find them Iwill bring yours back to you. Perhaps you will keep these till them.'So he took the eyes out of his own head and popped them into the head ofthe asp, and put the asp's eyes in their place. As he was running off hecried over his shoulder: 'As long as the world lasts the asps' eyes willgo down in the heads of foxes from generation to generation.'And so it has been. and if you look at the eyes of an asp you will seethat they are all burnt. and though thousands and thousands of yearshave gone by since the fox was going about playing tricks upon everybodyhe met, the asp still bears the traces of the day when the sly creaturecooked the salmon.