Translated from the Swedish.It happened once that a king, who had a great kingdom and three sons,became blind, and no human skill or art could restore to him his sight.At last there came to the palace an old woman, who told him that in thewhole world there was only one thing that could give him back his sight,and that was to get the bird Grip. his song would open the King's eyes.When the king's eldest son heard this he offered to bring the bird Grip,which was kept in a cage by a king in another country, and carefullyguarded as his greatest treasure. The blind king was greatly rejoiced athis son's resolve, fitted him out in the best way he could, and let himgo. When the prince had ridden some distance he came to an inn, in whichthere were many guests, all of whom were merry, and drank and sang andplayed at dice. This joyous life pleased the prince so well that hestayed in the inn, took part in the playing and drinking, and forgotboth his blind father and the bird Grip.Meanwhile the king waited with both hope and anxiety for his son'sreturn, but as time went on and nothing was heard of him, the secondprince asked leave to go in search of his brother, as well as to bringthe bird Grip. The king granted his request, and fitted him out inthe finest fashion. But when the prince came to the inn and found hisbrother among his merry companions, he also remained there and forgotboth the bird Grip and his blind father.When the king noticed that neither of his sons returned, although a longtime had passed since the second one set out, he was greatly distressed,for not only had he lost all hope of getting back his sight, but he hadalso lost his two eldest sons. The youngest now came to him, and offeredto go in search of his brothers and to bring the bird Grip. he was quitecertain that he would succeed in this. The king was unwilling to riskhis third son on such an errand, but he begged so long that his fatherhad at last to consent. This prince also was fitted out in the finestmanner, like his brothers, and so rode away.He also turned into the same inn as his brothers, and when these sawhim they assailed him with many entreaties to remain with them and sharetheir merry life. But he answered that now, when he had found them,his next task was to get the bird Grip, for which his blind father waslonging, and so he had not a single hour to spare with them in the inn.He then said farewell to his brothers, and rode on to find another innin which to pass the night. When he had ridden a long way, and it beganto grow dark, he came to a house which lay deep in the forest. Here hewas received in a very friendly manner by the host, who put his horseinto the stable, and led the prince himself into the guest chamber,where he ordered a maid servant to lay the cloth and set down thesupper. It was now dark, and while the girl was laying the cloth andsetting down the dishes, and the prince had begun to appease his hunger,he heard the most piteous shrieks and cries from the next room. Hesprang up from the table and asked the girl what those cries were, andwhether he had fallen into a den of robbers. The girl answered thatthese shrieks were heard every night, but it was no living being whouttered them. it was a dead man, who life the host had taken becausehe could not pay for the meals he had had in the inn. The host furtherrefused to bury the dead man, as he had left nothing to pay the expensesof the funeral, and every night he went and scourged the dead body ofhis victim.When she had said this she lifted the cover off one of the dishes, andthe prince saw that there lay on it a knife and an axe. He understoodthen that the host meant to ask him by this what kind of death hepreferred to die, unless he was willing to ransom his life with hismoney. He then summoned the host, gave him a large sum for his own life,and paid the dead man's debt as well, besides paying him for burying thebody, which the murderer now promised to attend to.The prince, however, felt that his life was not safe in this murderer'sden, and asked the maid to help him to escape that night. She repliedthat the attempt to do so might cost her her own life, as the key of thestable in which the prince's horse stood lay under the host's pillow.but, as she herself was a prisoner there, she would help him to escapeif he would take her along with him. He promised to do so, and theysucceeded in getting away from the inn, and rode on until they came toanother far away from it, where the prince got a good place for the girlbefore proceeding on his journey.As he now rode all alone through a forest there met him a fox, whogreeted him in a friendly fashion, and asked him where he was going, andon what errand he was bent. The prince answered that his errand was tooimportant to be confided to everyone that he met.'You are right in that,' said the fox, 'for it relates to the bird Grip,which you want to take and bring home to your blind father. I could helpyou in this, but in that case you must follow my counsel.'The prince thought that this was a good offer, especially as the fox wasready to go with him and show him the way to the castle, where the birdGrip sat in his cage, and so he promised to obey the fox's instructions.When they had traversed the forest together they saw the castle at somedistance. Then the fox gave the prince three grains of gold, one ofwhich he was to throw into the guard room, another into the room wherethe bird Grip sat, and the third into its cage. He could then take thebird, but he must beware of stroking it. otherwise it would go ill withhim.The prince took the grains of gold, and promised to follow the fox'sdirections faithfully. When he came to the guard room of the castle hethrew one of the grains in there, and the guards at once fell asleep.The same thing happened with those who kept watch in the room beside thebird Grip, and when he threw the third grain into its cage the bird alsofell asleep. When the prince got the beautiful bird into his hand hecould not resist the temptation to stroke it, whereupon it awoke andbegan to scream. At this the whole castle woke up, and the prince wastaken prisoner.As he now sat in his prison, and bitterly lamented that his owndisobedience had brought himself into trouble, and deprived his fatherof the chance of recovering his sight, the fox suddenly stood in frontof him. The prince was very pleased to see it again, and receivedwith great meekness all its reproaches, as well as promised to be moreobedient in the future, if the fox would only help him out of his fix.The fox said that he had come to assist him, but he could do no morethan advise the prince, when he was brought up for trial, to answer'yes' to all the judge's questions, and everything would go well. Theprince faithfully followed his instructions, so that when the judgeasked him whether he had meant to steal the bird Grip he said 'Yes,'and when the judge asked him if he was a master thief he again answered'Yes.'When the king heard that he admitted being a master thief, he said thathe would forgive him the attempt to steal the bird if he would go tothe next kingdom and carry off the world's most beautiful princess, andbring her to him. To this also the prince said 'Yes.'When he left the castle he met the fox, who went along with him to thenext kingdom, and when they came near the castle there, gave him threegrains of gold one to throw into the guard room, another into theprincess's chamber, and the third into her bed. At the same time hestrictly warned him not to kiss the princess. The prince went into thecastle, and did with the grains of gold as the fox had told him, so thatsleep fell upon everyone there. but when he had taken the princess intohis arms he forgot the fox's warning, at the sight of her beauty, andkissed her. Then both she and all the others in the castle woke. theprince was taken prisoner, and put into a strong dungeon.Here the fox again came to him and reproached him with his disobedience,but promised to help him out of this trouble also if he would answer'yes' to everything they asked him at his trial. The prince willinglyagreed to this, and admitted to the judge that he had meant to steal theprincess, and that he was a master thief.When the king learned this he said he would forgive his offence if hewould go to the next kingdom and steal the horse with the four goldenshoes. To this also the prince said 'Yes.'When he had gone a little way from the castle he met the fox, and theycontinued on their journey together. When they reached the end of it theprince for the third time received three grains of gold from the fox,with directions to throw one into the guard chamber, another into thestable, and the third into the horse's stall. But the fox told him thatabove the horse's stall hung a beautiful golden saddle, which he mustnot touch, if he did not want to bring himself into new troubles worsethan those he had escaped from, for then the fox could help him nolonger.The prince promised to be firm this time. He threw the grains of gold inthe proper places, and untied the horse, but with that he caughtsight of the golden saddle, and thought that none but it could suit sobeautiful a horse, especially as it had golden shoes. But just as hestretched out his hand to take it he received from some invisible beingso hard a blow on the arm that it was made quite numb. This recalled tohim his promise and his danger, so he led out the horse without lookingat the golden saddle again.The fox was waiting for him outside the castle, and the prince confessedto him that he had very nearly given way to temptation this time aswell. 'I know that,' said the fox, 'for it was I who struck you over thearm.'As they now went on together the prince said that he could not forgetthe beautiful princess, and asked the fox whether he did not think thatshe ought to ride home to his father's palace on this horse with thegolden shoes. The fox agreed that this would be excellent. if the princewould now go and carry her off he would give him three grains of goldfor that purpose. The prince was quite ready, and promised to keepbetter command of himself this time, and not kiss her.He got the grains of gold and entered the castle, where he carried offthe princess, set her on the beautiful horse, and held on his way. Whenthey came near to the castle where the bird Grip sat in his cage heagain asked the fox for three grains of gold. These he got, and withthem he was successful in carrying off the bird.He was now full of joy, for his blind father would now recover hissight, while he himself owned the world's most beautiful princess andthe horse with the golden shoes.The prince and princess travelled on together with mirth and happiness,and the fox followed them until they came to the forest where the princefirst met with him.'Here our ways part,' said the fox. 'You have now got all that yourheart desired, and you will have a prosperous journey to your father'spalace if only you do not ransom anyone's life with money.'The prince thanked the fox for all his help, promised to give heed tohis warning, said farewell to him, and rode on, with the princess by hisside and the bird Grip on his wrist.They soon arrived at the inn where the two eldest brothers had stayed,forgetting their errand. But now no merry song or noise of mirth washeard from it. When the prince came nearer he saw two gallows erected,and when he entered the inn along with the princess he saw that all therooms were hung with black, and that everything inside foreboded sorrowand death. He asked the reason of this, and was told that two princeswere to be hanged that day for debt. they had spent all their money infeasting and playing, and were now deeply in debt to the host, and asno one could be found to ransom their lives they were about to be hangedaccording to the law.The prince knew that it was his two brothers who had thus forfeitedtheir lives and it cut him to the heart to think that two princes shouldsuffer such a shameful death. and, as he had sufficient money with him,he paid their debts, and so ransomed their lives.At first the brothers were grateful for their liberty, but when theysaw the youngest brother's treasures they became jealous of his goodfortune, and planned how to bring him to destruction, and then take thebird Grip, the princess, and the horse with the golden shoes, and conveythem to their blind father. After they had agreed on how to carry outtheir treachery they enticed the prince to a den of lions and threw himdown among them. Then they set the princess on horseback, took the birdGrip, and rode homeward. The princess wept bitterly, but they told herthat it would cost her her life if she did not say that the two brothershad won all the treasures.When they arrived at their father's palace there was great rejoicing,and everyone praised the two princes for their courage and bravery.When the king inquired after the youngest brother they answered thathe had led such a life in the inn that he had been hanged for debt. Theking sorrowed bitterly over this, because the youngest prince was hisdearest son, and the joy over the treasures soon died away, for thebird Grip would not sing so that the king might recover his sight, theprincess wept night and day, and no one dared to venture so close to thehorse as to have a look at his golden shoes.Now when the youngest prince was thrown down into the lions' den hefound the fox sitting there, and the lions, instead of tearing him topieces, showed him the greatest friendliness. Nor was the fox angry withhim for having forgot his last warning. He only said that sons who couldso forget their old father and disgrace their royal birth as those haddone would not hesitate to betray their brother either. Then he took theprince up out of the lion's den and gave him directions what to do nowso as to come by his rights again.The prince thanked the fox with all his heart for his true friendship,but the fox answered that if he had been of any use to him he would nowfor his own part ask a service of him. The prince replied that he woulddo him any service that was in his power.'I have only one thing to ask of you,' said the fox, 'and that is, thatyou should cut off my head with your sword.'The prince was astonished, and said that he could not bring himself tocut the had off his truest friend, and to this he stuck in spite of allthe fox's declarations that it was the greatest service he could do him.At this the fox became very sorrowful, and declared that the prince'srefusal to grant his request now compelled him to do a deed which he wasvery unwilling to do if the prince would not cut off his head, thenhe must kill the prince himself. Then at last the prince drew his goodsword and cut off the fox's head, and the next moment a youth stoodbefore him.'Thanks,' said he, 'for this service, which has freed me from a spellthat not even death itself could loosen. I am the dead man who layunburied in the robber's inn, where you ransomed me and gave mehonourable burial, and therefore I have helped you in your journey.'With this they parted and the prince, disguising himself as ahorse shoer, went up to his father's palace and offered his servicesthere.The king's men told him that a horse shoer was indeed wanted at thepalace, but he must be one who could lift up the feet of the horse withthe golden shoes, and such a one they had not yet been able to find. Theprince asked to see the horse, and as soon as he entered the stable thesteed began to neigh in a friendly fashion, and stood as quiet and stillas a lamb while the prince lifted up his hoofs, one after the other, andshowed the king's men the famous golden shoes.After this the king's men began to talk about the bird Grip, and howstrange it was that he would not sing, however well he was attended to.The horse shoer then said that he knew the bird very well. he had seenit when it sat in its cage in another king's palace, and if it didnot sing now it must be because it did not have all that it wanted. Hehimself knew so much about the bird's ways that if he only got to see ithe could tell at once what it lacked.The king's men now took counsel whether they ought to take the strangerin before the king, for in his chamber sat the bird Grip along with theweeping princess. It was decided to risk doing so, and the horse shoerwas led into the king's chamber, where he had no sooner called the birdby its name than it began to sing and the princess to smile. Then thedarkness cleared away from the king's eyes, and the more the bird sangthe more clearly did he see, till at last in the strange horse shoerhe recognised his youngest son. Then the princess told the king howtreacherously his eldest sons had acted, and he had them banished fromhis kingdom. but the youngest prince married the princess, and got thehorse with the golden shoes and half the kingdom from his father, whokept for himself so long as he lived the bird Grip, which now sang withall its heart to the king and all his court.