Once upon a time there were three brothers. Two had no clothes and oneno shirt. The weather was very bad, and they make up their minds to goshooting. So they took down three guns   two were broken and one had nobarrel   and walked and walked until they came at last to a meadow, wherethey saw a hare. They began to fire at it, but could not catch it."What shall we do?" said one of them. They remembered that nearby agodmother of theirs lived. So they went and knocked at her door and askedher to lend them a pot to cook the hare they had not caught. The godmotherwas not at home, but nevertheless she answered, "My children, go in thekitchen and there you will find three pots, two broken and one with nobottom. Take whichever you wish.""Thanks, godmother!"They went into the kitchen and chose the one without a bottom and putthe hare in it to cook. While the hare was cooking, one said, "Let ask ourgodmother whether she has anything in her garden."So they asked her, and she said, "I have three walnut trees. Two aredead and one has never borne any nuts. Knock off as many as you wish."One went and shook the tree that had never borne nuts, and a little nutfell on his hat and broke his heel. Thereupon they picked up the nuts andwent to get the hare, which meanwhile was cooked, and said, "What shall wedo with so much stuff?"So they went to a village where there were many ill, and they put up anotice in the street that whoever wished might, at such and such a place,get broth given him in charity. Everyone went to get some, and they tookit in the salad basket, and it was given to them with a skimmer.One who did not belong to the village drank so much of this broth thathe was at the point of death. Then they went for three physicians. One wasblind, one deaf, and one dumb. The blind man went in and said, "Let melook at your tongue."The deaf man said, "How are you?"The dumb said, "Give me some paper, pen, and ink."They gave them to him, and he said,Go to the apothecary,For he knows the business.Buy two cents' worth of I know not what.Put it wherever you wish.He will get well I know not when,I will leave and commend him to you.