There was once a little chicken called Kluk. A nut fell on his back, andgave him such a blow that he fell down and rolled on the ground. So he ranto the hen, and said, "Henny Penny, run, I think all the world isfalling!""Who has told thee that, little chicken Kluk?""Oh, a nut fell on my back, and struck me so that I rolled on theground.""Then let us run," said the hen.So they ran to the cock, and said, " Cocky Locky, run, I think all theworld is falling.""Who has told thee that, Henny Penny? ""Little chicken Kluk.""Who told thee that, little chicken Kluk?""Oh, a nut fell on my back, and struck me so that I rolled on the ground.""Then let us run," said the cock. So they ran to the duck, and said,"Ducky Lucky, run, I think all the world is falling.""Who told thee that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny.""Who has told thee that, Henny Penny?""Little chicken Kluk.""Who has told thee that, little chicken Kluk?""Oh, a nut fell on my back, and struck me so that I rolled on the ground.""Then let us run," said the duck. So they ran to the goose. "Goosy Poosy,run, I think all the world is falling.""Who has told thee that, Ducky Lucky?""Cocky Locky.""Who has told thee that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny.""Who has told thee that, Henny Penny ?""Little chicken Kluk.""Who has told thee that, little chicken Kluk?""Oh, a nut fell on my back, and struck me so, that I rolled on the ground."Then let us run," said the goose. Then they ran to the fox, and said,Foxy Coxy, run, I think all the world is falling.""Who has told thee that, Goosy Poosy?""Ducky Lucky.""Who has told thee that, Ducky Lucky?""Cocky Locky.""Who has told thee that, Cocky Locky?""Henny Penny.""Who has told thee that, Henny Penny?""Little chicken Kluk.""Who has told thee that, little chicken Kluk?""Oh, a nut fell on my back, and struck me so, that I rolled on theground.""Then let us run," said the fox. So they all ran into the wood. Then thefox said, "I must now count and see if I have got you all here. I, FoxyCoxy, one. Goosy Poosy, two. Ducky Lucky, three. Cocky Locky, four. HennyPenny, five. and little chicken Kluk, six . Hei ! That one I'll snap up."He then said : "Let us run."So they ran further into the wood. Then said he, Now I must count and seeif I have got you all here. I, Foxy Coxy, one. Goosy Poosy, two. DuckyLucky, three. Cocky Locky, four. Henny Penny, five. Hei! That one I'llsnap up." And so he went on till he had eaten them all up.