A certain soldier was allowed to go home on furlough. Well, he walkedand walked, and after a time he began to draw near to his native village.Not far off from that village lived a miller in his mill. In old times thesoldier had been very intimate with him: why shouldn't he go and see hisfriend? He went. The miller received him cordially, and at once broughtout liquor. and the two began drinking, and chattering about their waysand doings. All this took place towards nightfall, and the soldier stoppedso long at the miller's that it grew quite dark.When he proposed to start for his village, his host exclaimed:"Spend the night here, trooper! It's very late now, and perhaps youmight run into mischief.""How so?""God is punishing us! A terrible warlock has died among us, and bynight he rises from his grave, wanders through the village, and does suchthings as bring fear upon the very boldest! How could even you help beingafraid of him?""Not a bit of it! A soldier is a man who belongs to the crown, and'crown property cannot be drowned in water nor burnt in fire.' I'll beoff: I'm tremendously anxious to see my people as soon as possible."Off he set. His road lay in front of a graveyard. On one of the graveshe saw a great fire blazing. "What's that?" thinks he. "Let's have alook." When he drew near, he saw that the warlock was sitting by the fire,sewing boots."Hail, brother!" calls out the soldier.The warlock looked up and said:"What have you come here for?""Why, I wanted to see what you're doing."The warlock threw his work aside and invited the soldier to a wedding."Come along, brother," says he, "let's enjoy ourselves. There's awedding going on in the village.""Come along!" says the soldier.They came to where the wedding was. there they were given drink, andtreated with the utmost hospitality. The warlock drank and drank, reveledand reveled, and then grew angry. He chased all the guests and relativesout of the house, threw the wedded pair into a slumber, took out twophials and an awl, pierced the hands of the bride and bridegroom with theawl, and began drawing off their blood. Having done this, he said to thesoldier:"Now let's be off."Well, they went off.On the way the soldier said:"Tell me. why did you draw off their blood in those phials?""Why, in order that the bride and bridegroom might die. Tomorrowmorning no one will be able to wake them. I alone know how to bring themback to life.""How's that managed?""The bride and bridegroom must have cuts made in their heels, and someof their own blood must then be poured back into those wounds. I've gotthe bridegroom's blood stowed away in my right hand pocket, and thebride's in my left."The soldier listened to this without letting a single word escape him.Then the warlock began boasting again."Whatever I wish," says he, "That I can do!""I suppose it's quite impossible to get the better of you?" says thesoldier."Why impossible? If any one were to make a pyre of aspen boughs, ahundred loads of them, and were to burn me on that pyre, then he'd be ableto get the better of me. Only he'd have to look out sharp in burning me.for snakes and worms and different kinds of reptiles would creep out of myinside, and crows and magpies and jackdaws would come flying up. All thesemust be caught and flung on the pyre. If so much as a single maggot wereto escape, then there'd be no help for it. in that maggot I should slipaway!"The soldier listened to all this and did not forget it. He and thewarlock talked and talked, and at last they arrived at the grave."Well, brother," said the warlock, "now I'll tear you to pieces.Otherwise you'd be telling all this.""What are you talking about? Don't you deceive yourself. I serve Godand the Emperor."The warlock gnashed his teeth, howled aloud, and sprang at the soldier  who drew his sword and began laying about him with sweeping blows. Theystruggled and struggled. the soldier was all but at the end of hisstrength. "Ah!" thinks he, "I'm a lost man   and all for nothing!"Suddenly the cocks began to crow. The warlock fell lifeless to the ground.The soldier took the phials of blood out of the warlock's pockets, andwent on to the house of his own people. When he had got there, and hadexchanged greetings with his relatives, they said: "Did you see anydisturbance, soldier?""No, I saw none.""There now! Why we've a terrible piece of work going on in the village.A warlock has taken to haunting it!"After talking awhile, they lay down to sleep. Next morning the soldierawoke, and began asking: "I'm told you've got a wedding going on somewherehere?""There was a wedding in the house of a rich moujik," replied hisrelative, "but the bride and bridegroom have died this very night   whatfrom, nobody knows."They showed him the house. Thither he went without speaking a word.When he got there, he found the whole family in tears."What are you mourning about?" says he."Such and such is the state of things soldier," say they."I can bring your young people to life again. What will you give me ifI do?""Take what you like, even were it half of what we've got!"The soldier did as the warlock had instructed him, and brought theyoung people back to life. Instead of weeping there began to be happinessand rejoicing. the soldier was hospitably treated and well rewarded. Then  left about, face! off he marched to the Starosta, and told him to callthe peasants together and to get ready a hundred loads of aspen wood.Well, they took the wood into the graveyard, dragged the warlock out ofhis grave, placed him on the pyre, and set it alight   the people allstanding round in a circle with brooms, shovels, and fire irons. The pyrebecame wrapped in flames, the warlock began to burn. His corpse burst, andout of it crept snakes, worms, and all sorts of reptiles, and up cameflying crows, magpies, and jackdaws. The peasants knocked them down andflung them into the fire, not allowing so much as a single maggot to creepaway! And so the warlock was thoroughly consumed, and the soldiercollected his ashes and strewed them to the winds. From that time forththere was peace in the village.The soldier received the thanks of the whole community. He stayed athome some time, enjoying himself thoroughly. Then he want back to theczar's service with money in his pocket. When he had served his time, heretired from the army, and began to live at his ease.