There was once a man who had three sons. The youngest was calledDummerly, and was on all occasions scorned and ill treated by the wholefamily. It happened that the eldest took it into his head one day to gointo the forest to cut wood. and his mother gave him a delicious meatpie and a bottle of wine to take with him, that he might sustain himselfat his work. As he went into the forest, a little old man bid him goodday, and said, "Give me a little bit of meat from your plate, and alittle wine out of your flask. I am very hungry and thirsty." But thisclever young man said, "Give you my meat and wine! No, I thank you.there would not be enough left for me." and he went on his way. He soonbegan to chop down a tree. but he had not worked long before he missedhis stroke, and cut himself, and was obliged to go home and have thewound bound up. Now, it was the little old man who caused him thismischief.Next the second son went out to work. and his mother gave him, too, ameat pie and a bottle of wine. And the same little old man encounteredhim also, and begged him for something to eat and drink. But he, too,thought himself extremely clever, and said, "Whatever you get, I shallbe without. so go your way!" The little man made sure that he shouldhave his reward. and the second stroke that he struck at a tree, hit himon the leg, so that he too was compelled to go home.Then Dummerly said, "Father, I should like to go and cut fuel too." Buthis father replied, "Your brothers have both maimed themselves. you hadbetter stop at home, for you know nothing of the job." But Dummerly wasvery urgent. and at last his father said, "Go your way. you will bewiser when you have suffered for your foolishness." And his mother gavehim only some dry bread, and a bottle of sour ale. but when he went intothe forest, he met the little old man, who said, "Give me some meat anddrink, for I am very hungry and thirsty." Dummerly said, "I have nothingbut dry bread and sour beer. if that will do for you, we will sit downand eat it together." So they sat down, and when the lad took out hisbread, behold it was turned into a splendid meat pie, and his sour beerbecame delicious wine! They ate and drank heartily, and when they hadfinished, the little man said, "As you have a kind heart, and have beenwilling to share everything with me I will bring good to you. Therestands an old tree. chop it down, and you will find something at theroot." Then he took his leave and went his way.Dummerly set to work, and cut down the tree. and when it fell, hediscovered in a hollow under the roots a goose with plumage of puregold. He took it up, and went on to an inn, where he proposed sleep forthe night. The landlord had three daughters, and when they saw thegoose, they were very curious to find out what this wonderful bird couldbe, and wished very much to pluck one of the feathers out of its tail.At last the eldest said, "I must and will have a feather." So she waitedtill his back was turned, and then caught hold of the goose by the wing.but to her great surprise, there she stuck, for neither hand nor fingercould she pull away again. Presently in came the second sister, andthought to have a feather too. but the instant she touched her sister,there she too hung fast. At last came the third, and desired a feather.but the other two cried out, "Keep away! for heaven's sake, keep away!"However, she did not understand what they meant. "If they are there,"thought she, "I may as well be there too," so she went up to them. Butthe moment she touched her sisters she stuck fast, and hung to the gooseas they did. And so they abode with the goose all night.The next morning Dummerly carried off the goose under his arm, and tookno heed of the three girls, but went out with them sticking fast behind.and wherever he journeyed, the three were obliged to follow, whetherthey wished or not, as fast as their legs could carry them.In the middle of a field the parson met them. and when he saw theprocession, he said, "Are you not ashamed of yourselves, you bold girls,to run after the young man like that over the fields? Is that properbehavior?"Then he took the youngest by the hand to lead her away. but the momenthe touched her he, too, hung fast, and followed in the procession.Presently up came the clerk. and when he saw his master, the parson,running after the three girls, he was greatly surprised, and said,"Hollo! hollo! your reverence! whither so fast! There is a christeningto day."Then he ran up, and caught him by the gown, and instantly he was fasttoo.As the five were thus trudging along, one after another, they met twolaborers with their mattocks coming from work. and the parson called outto them to set him free. But hardly had they touched him, when they,too, joined the ranks, and so made seven, all running after Dummerly andhis goose.At last they came to a city, where reigned a King who had an onlydaughter. The princess was of so thoughtful and serious a turn of mindthat no one could make her laugh. and the King had announced to all theworld that whoever could make her laugh should have her for his wife.When the young man heard this, he went to her with the goose and all itsfollowers. and as soon as she saw the seven all hanging together, andrunning about, treading on each other's heels, she could not helpbursting into a long and loud laugh.Then Dummerly claimed her for his bride. the wedding took place, and hewas heir to the kingdom, and lived long and happily with his wife.