Once upon a time there was little girl, pretty and dainty. Butin summer time she was obliged to go barefooted because she waspoor, and in winter she had to wear large wooden shoes, so that herlittle instep grew quite red.In the middle of the village lived an old shoemaker's wife. shesat down and made, as well as she could, a pair of little shoes out ofsome old pieces of red cloth. They were clumsy, but she meant well,for they were intended for the little girl, whose name was Karen.Karen received the shoes and wore them for the first time on theday of her mother's funeral. They were certainly not suitable formourning. but she had no others, and so she put her bare feet intothem and walked behind the humble coffin.Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady.she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to theclergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I willtake care of her."Karen believed that this was all on account of the red shoes,but the old lady thought them hideous, and so they were burnt. Karenherself was dressed very neatly and cleanly. she was taught to readand to sew, and people said that she was pretty. But the mirror toldher, "You are more than pretty you are beautiful."One day the Queen was travelling through that part of the country,and had her little daughter, who was a princess, with her. All thepeople, amongst them Karen too, streamed towards the castle, where thelittle princess, in fine white clothes, stood before the window andallowed herself to be stared at. She wore neither a train nor a goldencrown, but beautiful red morocco shoes. they were indeed much finerthan those which the shoemaker's wife had sewn for little Karen. Thereis really nothing in the world that can be compared to red shoes!Karen was now old enough to be confirmed. she received some newclothes, and she was also to have some new shoes. The rich shoemakerin the town took the measure of her little foot in his own room, inwhich there stood great glass cases full of pretty shoes and whiteslippers. It all looked very lovely, but the old lady could not seevery well, and therefore did not get much pleasure out of it.Amongst the shoes stood a pair of red ones, like those which theprincess had worn. How beautiful they were! and the shoemaker saidthat they had been made for a count's daughter, but that they hadnot fitted her."I suppose they are of shiny leather?" asked the old lady. "Theyshine so.""Yes, they do shine," said Karen. They fitted her, and werebought. But the old lady knew nothing of their being red, for shewould never have allowed Karen to be confirmed in red shoes, as shewas now to be.Everybody looked at her feet, and the whole of the way from thechurch door to the choir it seemed to her as if even the ancientfigures on the monuments, in their stiff collars and long black robes,had their eyes fixed on her red shoes. It was only of these that shethought when the clergyman laid his hand upon her head and spoke ofthe holy baptism, of the covenant with God, and told her that shewas now to be a grown up Christian. The organ pealed forth solemnly,and the sweet children's voices mingled with that of their old leader.but Karen thought only of her red shoes. In the afternoon the old ladyheard from everybody that Karen had worn red shoes. She said that itwas a shocking thing to do, that it was very improper, and thatKaren was always to go to church in future in black shoes, even ifthey were old.On the following Sunday there was Communion. Karen looked first atthe black shoes, then at the red ones looked at the red ones again,and put them on.The sun was shining gloriously, so Karen and the old lady wentalong the footpath through the corn, where it was rather dusty.At the church door stood an old crippled soldier leaning on acrutch. he had a wonderfully long beard, more red than white, and hebowed down to the ground and asked the old lady whether he mightwipe her shoes. Then Karen put out her little foot too. "Dear me, whatpretty dancing shoes!" said the soldier. "Sit fast, when you dance,"said he, addressing the shoes, and slapping the soles with his hand.The old lady gave the soldier some money and then went withKaren into the church.And all the people inside looked at Karen's red shoes, and all thefigures gazed at them. when Karen knelt before the altar and put thegolden goblet to her mouth, she thought only of the red shoes. Itseemed to her as though they were swimming about in the goblet, andshe forgot to sing the psalm, forgot to say the "Lord's Prayer."Now every one came out of church, and the old lady stepped intoher carriage. But just as Karen was lifting up her foot to get in too,the old soldier said: "Dear me, what pretty dancing shoes!" andKaren could not help it, she was obliged to dance a few steps. andwhen she had once begun, her legs continued to dance. It seemed asif the shoes had got power over them. She danced round the churchcorner, for she could not stop. the coachman had to run after herand seize her. He lifted her into the carriage, but her feet continuedto dance, so that she kicked the good old lady violently. At last theytook off her shoes, and her legs were at rest.At home the shoes were put into the cupboard, but Karen couldnot help looking at them.Now the old lady fell ill, and it was said that she would not risefrom her bed again. She had to be nursed and waited upon, and this wasno one's duty more than Karen's. But there was a grand ball in thetown, and Karen was invited. She looked at the red shoes, saying toherself that there was no sin in doing that. she put the red shoes on,thinking there was no harm in that either. and then she went to theball. and commenced to dance.But when she wanted to go to the right, the shoes danced to theleft, and when she wanted to dance up the room, the shoes danceddown the room, down the stairs through the street, and out through thegates of the town. She danced, and was obliged to dance, far outinto the dark wood. Suddenly something shone up among the trees, andshe believed it was the moon, for it was a face. But it was the oldsoldier with the red beard. he sat there nodding his head and said:"Dear me, what pretty dancing shoes!"She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away. butthey stuck fast. She tore off her stockings, but the shoes had grownfast to her feet. She danced and was obliged to go on dancing overfield and meadow, in rain and sunshine, by night and by day but bynight it was most horrible.She danced out into the open churchyard. but the dead there didnot dance. They had something better to do than that. She wanted tosit down on the pauper's grave where the bitter fern grows. but forher there was neither peace nor rest. And as she danced past theopen church door she saw an angel there in long white robes, withwings reaching from his shoulders down to the earth. his face wasstern and grave, and in his hand he held a broad shining sword."Dance you shall," said he, "dance in your red shoes till youare pale and cold, till your skin shrivels up and you are askeleton! Dance you shall, from door to door, and where proud andwicked children live you shall knock, so that they may hear you andfear you! Dance you shall, dance !""Mercy!" cried Karen. But she did not hear what the angelanswered, for the shoes carried her through the gate into thefields, along highways and byways, and unceasingly she had to dance.One morning she danced past a door that she knew well. they weresinging a psalm inside, and a coffin was being carried out coveredwith flowers. Then she knew that she was forsaken by every one anddamned by the angel of God.She danced, and was obliged to go on dancing through the darknight. The shoes bore her away over thorns and stumps till she was alltorn and bleeding. she danced away over the heath to a lonely littlehouse. Here, she knew, lived the executioner. and she tapped withher finger at the window and said:"Come out, come out! I cannot come in, for I must dance."And the executioner said: "I don't suppose you know who I am. Istrike off the heads of the wicked, and I notice that my axe istingling to do so.""Don't cut off my head!" said Karen, "for then I could notrepent of my sin. But cut off my feet with the red shoes."And then she confessed all her sin, and the executioner struck offher feet with the red shoes. but the shoes danced away with the littlefeet across the field into the deep forest.And he carved her a pair of wooden feet and some crutches, andtaught her a psalm which is always sung by sinners. she kissed thehand that guided the axe, and went away over the heath."Now, I have suffered enough for the red shoes," she said. "I willgo to church, so that people can see me." And she went quickly up tothe church door. but when she came there, the red shoes were dancingbefore her, and she was frightened, and turned back.During the whole week she was sad and wept many bitter tears,but when Sunday came again she said: "Now I have suffered andstriven enough. I believe I am quite as good as many of those whosit in church and give themselves airs." And so she went boldly on.but she had not got farther than the churchyard gate when she sawthe red shoes dancing along before her. Then she became terrified, andturned back and repented right heartily of her sin.She went to the parsonage, and begged that she might be taken intoservice there. She would be industrious, she said, and do everythingthat she could. she did not mind about the wages as long as she hada roof over her, and was with good people. The pastor's wife hadpity on her, and took her into service. And she was industrious andthoughtful. She sat quiet and listened when the pastor read aloud fromthe Bible in the evening. All the children liked her very much, butwhen they spoke about dress and grandeur and beauty she would shakeher head.On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was askedwhether she wished to go too. but, with tears in her eyes, shelooked sadly at her crutches. And then the others went to hear God'sWord, but she went alone into her little room. this was only largeenough to hold the bed and a chair. Here she sat down with herhymn book, and as she was reading it with a pious mind, the windcarried the notes of the organ over to her from the church, and intears she lifted up her face and said: "O God! help me!"Then the sun shone so brightly, and right before her stood anangel of God in white robes. it was the same one whom she had seenthat night at the church door. He no longer carried the sharp sword,but a beautiful green branch, full of roses. with this he touchedthe ceiling, which rose up very high, and where he had touched itthere shone a golden star. He touched the walls, which opened wideapart, and she saw the organ which was pealing forth. she saw thepictures of the old pastors and their wives, and the congregationsitting in the polished chairs and singing from their hymn books.The church itself had come to the poor girl in her narrow room, or theroom had gone to the church. She sat in the pew with the rest of thepastor's household, and when they had finished the hymn and looked up,they nodded and said, "It was right of you to come, Karen.""It was mercy," said she.The organ played and the children's voices in the choir soundedsoft and lovely. The bright warm sunshine streamed through thewindow into the pew where Karen sat, and her heart became so filledwith it, so filled with peace and joy, that it broke. Her soul flew onthe sunbeams to Heaven, and no one was there who asked after the RedShoes.