A certain King, who had a son over much given to hunting andcoursing, ordered one of his Wazirs to be in attendance upon himwhithersoever he might wend. One day the youth set out for thechase accompanied by his father's Minister. and, as they joggedon together, a big wild beast came in sight. Cried the Wazir tothe King's son, "Up and at yon noble quarry!" So the Princefollowed it until he was lost to every eye and the chase got awayfrom him in the waste. whereby he was confused and he knew notwhich way to turn, when lo! a damsel appeared ahead and she wasin tears. The King's son asked, "Who art thou?" and she answered,"I am daughter to a King among the Kings of Hind, and I wastravelling with a caravan in the desert when drowsiness overcameme, and I fell from my beast unwittingly whereby I am cut offfrom my people and sore bewildered." The Prince, hearing thesewords, pitied her case and, mounting her on his horse's crupper,travelled until he passed by an old ruin , when the damselsaid to him, "O my master, I wish to obey a call of nature": hetherefore set her down at the ruin where she delayed so long thatthe King's son thought that she was only wasting time. so hefollowed her without her knowledge and behold, she was aGhulah, a wicked Ogress, who was saying to her brood, "Omy children, this day I bring you a fine fat youth, fordinner." whereto they answered, "Bring him quick to us, O ourmother, that we may browse upon him our bellies full." The Princehearing their talk, made sure of death and his side musclesquivered in fear for his life, so he turned away and was about tofly. The Ghulah came out and seeing him in sore affright (for hewas trembling in every limb? cried, "Wherefore art thou afraid?"and he replied, "I have hit upon an enemy whom I greatly fear."Asked the Ghulah, "Diddest thou not say:   I am a King's son?"and he answered, "Even so." Then quoth she, "Why cost not giveshine enemy something of money and so satisfy him?" Quoth he, "Hewill not be satisfied with my purse but only with my life, and Imortally fear him and am a man under oppression." She replied,"If thou be so distressed, as thou deemest, ask aid against himfrom Allah, who will surely protect thee from his ill doing andfrom the evil whereof thou art afraid." Then the Prince raisedhis eyes heavenwards and cried, "O Thou who answerest thenecessitous when he calleth upon Thee and dispellest hisdistress. O my God ! grant me victory over my foe and turn himfrom me, for Thou over all things art Almighty." The Ghulah,hearing his prayer, turned away from him, and the Prince returnedto his father, and told him the tale of the Wazir. whereupon theKing summoned the Minister to his presence and then and thereslew him. Thou likewise, O King, if thou continue to trust thisleach, shalt be made to die the worst of deaths. He verily thoumadest much of and whom thou entreatedest as an intimate, willwork thy destruction. Seest thou not how he healed the diseasefrom outside thy body by something grasped in thy hand? Be notassured that he will not destroy thee by something held in likemanner! Replied King Yunan, "Thou hast spoken sooth, O Wazir, itmay well be as thou hintest O my well advising Minister. andbelike this Sage hath come as a spy searching to put me to death.for assuredly if he cured me by a something held in my hand, hecan kill me by a something given me to smell." Then asked KingYunan, "O Minister, what must be done with him?" and the Waziranswered, "Send after him this very instant and summon him to thypresence. and when he shall come strike him across the neck. andthus shalt thou rid thyself of him and his wickedness, anddeceive him ere he can I deceive thee." 'Thou hast again spokensooth, O Wazir," said the King and sent one to call the Sage whocame in joyful mood for he knew not what had appointed for himthe Compassionate. as a certain poet saith by way ofillustration: O Thou who fearest Fate, confiding fare Trust all to Him whobuilt the world and wait:What Fate saith "Be" perforce must be, my lord! And safe artthou from th undecreed of Fate.As Duban the physician entered he addressed the King in theselines: An fail I of my thanks to thee nor thank thee day by day Forwhom com posed I prose and verse, for whom my say and lay?Thou lavishedst thy generous gifts ere they were craved by meThou lavishedst thy boons unsought sans pretext or delay:How shall I stint my praise of thee, how shall I cease to laudThe grace of thee in secresy and patentest display?Nay. I will thank thy benefits, for aye thy favours lie Lighton my thought and tongue, though heavy on my back theyweigh.And he said further on the same theme: Turn thee from grief nor care a jot! Commit thy needs to Fateand Lot!Enjoy the Present passing well And let the Past be clean forgotFor whatso haply seemeth worse Shall work thy weal as AllahwotAllah shall do whate'er He wills And in His will oppose Himnot.And further still. To th' All wise Subtle One trust worldly things Rest thee fromall whereto the worldling clings:Learn wisely well naught cometh by thy will But e'en as willethAllah, King of Kings.And lastly. Gladsome and gay forget thine every grief Full often grief thewisest hearts outwore:Thought is but folly in the feeble slave Shun it and so besaved evermore.Said the King for sole return, "Knowest thou why I have summonedthee?" and the Sage replied, "Allah Most Highest alone kennethhidden things!" But the King rejoined, "I summoned thee only totake thy life and utterly to destroy thee." Duban the Wisewondered at this strange address with exceeding wonder and asked,"O King, and wherefore wouldest thou slay me, and what ill have Idone thee?" and the King answered, "Men tell me thou art a spysent hither with intent to slay me. and lo! I will kill thee ereI be killed by thee." then he called to his Sworder, and said,"Strike me off the head of this traitor and deliver us from hisevil practices." Quoth the Sage, "Spare me and Allah will sparethee. slay me not or Allah shall slay thee." And he repeated tohim these very words, even as I to thee, O Ifrit, and yet thouwouldst not let me go, being bent upon my death. King Yunan onlyrejoined, "I shall not be safe without slaying thee. for, as thouhealedst me by something held in hand, so am I not secure againstthy killing me by something given me to smell or otherwise." Saidthe physician, "This then, O King, is thy requital and reward.thou returnest only evil for good." The King replied, "There isno help for it. die thou must and without delay." Now when thephysician was certified that the King would slay him withoutwaiting, he wept and regretted the good he had done to other thanthe good. As one hath said on this subject: Of wit and wisdom is Maymunah bare Whose sire inwisdom all the wits outstrippeth:Man may not tread on mud or dust or clay Save by good sense,else trippeth he and slippeth.Hereupon the Sworder stepped forward and bound the Sage Duban'seyes and bared his blade, saying to the King, "By thy leave."while the physician wept and cried, "Spare me and Allah willspare thee, and slay me not or Allah shall slay thee," and beganrepeating: I was kind and 'scaped not, they were cruel and escaped. And mykindness only led me to Ruination Hall,If I live I'll ne'er be kind. if I die, then all be damned Whofollow me, and curses their kindliness befal."Is this," continued Duban, "the return I meet from thee? Thougivest me, meseems, but crocodile boon." Quoth the King,"What isthe tale of the crocodile?", and quoth the physician, "Impossiblefor me to tell it in this my state. Allah upon thee, spare me, asthou hopest Allah shall spare thee." And he wept with ex ceedingweeping. Then one of the King's favourites stood up and said, "OKing! grant me the blood of this physician. we have never seenhim sin against thee, or doing aught save healing thee from adisease which baffled every leach and man of science." Said theKing, "Ye wot not the cause of my putting to death thisphysician, and this it is. If I spare him, I doom myself tocertain death. for one who healed me of such a malady bysomething held in my hand, surely can slay me by something heldto my nose. and I fear lest he kill me for a price, since haplyhe is some spy whose sole purpose in coming hither was to compassmy destruction. So there is no help for it. die he must, and thenonly shall I be sure of my own life." Again cried Duban, "Spareme and Allah shall spare thee. and slay me not or Allah shallslay thee." But it was in vain. Now when the physician, O Ifrit,knew for certain that the King would kill him, he said, "O King,if there be no help but I must die, grant me some little delaythat I may go down to my house and release myself from mineobligations and direct my folk and my neighbours where to bury meand distribute my books of medicine. Amongst these I have one,the rarest of rarities, which I would present to thee as anoffering: keep it as a treasure in thy treasury." "And what is inthe book?" asked the King and the Sage answered, "Things beyondcompt. and the least of secrets is that if, directly after thouhast cut off my head, thou open three leaves and read three linesof the page to thy left hand, my head shall speak and answerevery question thou deignest ask of it." The King wondered withexceeding wonder and shaking with delight at the novelty,said, "O physician, cost thou really tell me that when I cut offthy head it will speak to me?" He replied, "Yes, O King!" Quoththe King, "This is indeed a strange matter!" and forthwith senthim closely guarded to his house, and Duban then and theresettled all his obligations. Next day he went up to the King'saudience hall, where Emirs and Wazirs, Chamberlains and Nabobs,Grandees and Lords of Estate were gathered together, making thepresence chamber gay as a garden of flower beds. And lo! thephysician came up and stood before the King, bearing a worn oldvolume and a little etui of metal full of powder, like that usedfor the eyes. Then he sat down and said, "Give me atray." So they brought him one and he poured the powder upon itand levelled it and lastly spake as follows: "O King, take thisbook but do not open it till my head falls. then set it upon thistray, and bid press it down upon the powder, when forthright theblood will cease flowing. That is the time to open the book." TheKing thereupon took the book and made a sign to the Sworder, whoarose and struck off the physician's head, and placing it on themiddle of the tray, pressed it down upon the powder. The bloodstopped flowing, and the Sage Duban unclosed his eyes and said,"Now open the book, O King!" The King opened the book, and foundthe leaves stuck together. so he put his finger to his mouth and,by moistening it, he easily turned over the first leaf, and inlike way the second, and the third, each leaf opening with muchtrouble. and when he had un stuck six leaves he looked over themand, finding nothing written thereon, said, "O physician, thereis no writing here!" Duban re plied, "Turn over yet more." and heturned over three others in the same way. Now the book waspoisoned. and before long the venom penetrated his system, and hefell into strong convulsions and he cried out, "The poison hathdone its work!" Whereupon the Sage Duban's head began toimprovise: There be rulers who have ruled with a foul tyrannic swayBut they soon became as though they had never, never been:Just, they had won justice: they oppressed and were oppressBy Fortune, who requited them with ban and bane and teen:So they faded like the morn, and the tongue of things repeats"Take this far that, nor vent upon Fortune's ways thyspleen."No sooner had the head ceased speaking than the King rolled overdead. Now I would have thee know, O Ifrit, that if King Yunan hadspared the Sage Duban, Allah would have spared him, but herefused so to do and decreed to do him dead, wherefore Allah slewhim. and thou too, O Ifrit, if thou hadst spared me, Allah wouldhave spared thee. And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day andceased saying her permitted say: then quoth Dunyazad, "O mysister, how pleasant is thy tale, and how tasteful. how sweet,and how grateful!" She replied, "And where is this compared withwhat I could tell thee this coming night, if I live and the Kingspare me?" Said the King in himself, "By Allah, I will not slayher until I hear the rest of her story, for truly it iswondrous." They rested that night in mutual embrace until dawn:then the King went forth to his Darbar. the Wazirs and troopscame in and the audience hall was crowded. so the King gaveorders and judged and appointed and deposed and bade and forbadethe rest of that day, when the court broke up, and King Shahryarentered his palace,When it was the Sixth Night,Her sister, Dunyazad, said to her,"Pray finish for us thy story."and she answered, "I will if the King give me leave." "Say on,"quoth the King. And she continued: It hath reached me, Oauspicious King, that when the Fisherman said to the Ifrit, "Ifthou hadst spared me I would have spared thee, but nothing wouldsatisfy thee save my death. so now I will do thee die by jailingthee in this jar and I will hurl thee into this sea." Then theMarid roared aloud and cried, "Allah upon thee, O Fisher man,don't! Spare me, and pardon my past doings. and, as I have beentyrannous, so be thou generous, for it is said among sayings thatgo current: O thou who doest good to him who hath done theeevil, suffice for the ill doer his ill deeds, and do not dealwith me as did Umamah to 'Atikah." Asked the Fisherman,"And what was their case?" and the Ifrit answered, "This is notthe time for story telling and I in this prison. but set me freeand I will tell thee the tale." Quoth the Fisherman, "Leave thislanguage: there is no help but that thou be thrown back into thesea nor is there any way for thy getting out of it for ever andever. Vainly I placed myself under thy protection, and Ihumbled my self to thee with weeping, while thou soughtest onlyto slay me, who had done thee no injury deserving this at thyhands. nay, so far from injuring thee by any evil act, I workedthee nought but weal in releasing thee from that jail of thine.Now I knew thee to be an evil doer when thou diddest to me whatthou didst, and know, that when I have cast thee back into thesea, I will warn whomsoever may fish thee up of what hathbefallen me with thee, and I will advise him to toss thee backagain. so shalt thou abide here under these waters till the Endof Time shall make an end of thee." But the Ifrit cried aloud,"Set me free. this is a noble occasion for generosity and I makecovenant with thee and vow never to do thee hurt and harm. nay, Iwill help thee to what shall put thee out of want." The Fishermanaccepted his promises on both conditions, not to trouble him asbefore, but on the contrary to do him service. and, after makingfirm the plight and swearing him a solemn oath by Allah MostHighest he opened the cucurbit. Thereupon the pillar of smokerose up till all of it was fully out. then it thickened and oncemore became an Ifrit of hideous presence, who forthright administered a kick to the bottle and sent it flying into the sea.The Fisherman, seeing how the cucurbit was treated and makingsure of his own death, piddled in his clothes and said tohimself, "This promiseth badly." but he fortified his heart, andcried, "O Ifrit, Allah hath said:   Perform yourcovenant. for the performance of your covenant shall be inquiredinto hereafter. Thou hast made a vow to me and hast sworn an oathnot to play me false lest Allah play thee false, for verily he isa jealous God who respiteth the sinner, but letteth him notescape. I say to thee as said the Sage Duban to King Yunan,"Spare me so Allah may spare thee!" The Ifrit burst into laughterand stalked away, saying to the Fisherman, "Follow me." and theman paced after him at a safe distance (for he was not assured ofescape) till they had passed round the suburbs of the city.Thence they struck into the uncultivated grounds, and crossingthem descended into a broad wilderness, and lo! in the midst ofit stood a mountain tarn. The Ifrit waded in to the middle andagain cried, "Follow me." and when this was done he took hisstand in the centre and bade the man cast his net and catch hisfish. The Fisherman looked into the water and was much astonishedto see therein vari coloured fishes, white and red, blue andyellow. however he cast his net and, hauling it in, saw that hehad netted four fishes, one of each colour. Thereat he rejoicedgreatly and more when the Ifrit said to him, "Carry these to theSultan and set them in his presence. then he will give thee whatshall make thee a wealthy man. and now accept my excuse, for byAllah at this time I wot none other way of benefiting thee,inasmuch I have lain in this sea eighteen hundred years and havenot seen the face of the world save within this hour. But I wouldnot have thee fish here save once a day." The Ifrit then gave himGod speed, saying, Allah grant we meet again." and struckthe earth with one foot, whereupon the ground clove asunder andswallowed him up. The Fisherman, much marvelling at what hadhappened to him with the Ifrit, took the fish and made for thecity. and as soon as he reached home he filled an earthen bowlwith water and therein threw the fish which began to struggle andwriggle about. Then he bore off the bowl upon his head andrepairing to the King's palace (even as the Ifrit had bidden him)laid the fish before the presence. and the King wondered withexceeding wonder at the sight, for never in his lifetime had' heseen fishes like these in quality or in conformation. So he said,"Give those fish to the stranger slave girl who now cooketh forus," meaning the bond maiden whom the King of Roum had sent tohim only three days before, so that he had not yet made trial ofher talents in the dressing of meat. Thereupon the Wazir carriedthe fish to the cook and bade her fry them saying, "Odamsel, the King sendeth this say to thee: I have not treasuredthee, O tear o' me! save for stress time of me. approve, then, tous this day thy delicate handiwork and thy savoury cooking. forthis dish of fish is a present sent to the Sultan and evidently ararity." The Wazir, after he had carefully charged her, returnedto the King, who commanded him to give the Fisherman four hundreddiners: he gave them accordingly, and the man took them to hisbosom and ran off home stumbling and falling and rising again anddeeming the whole thing to be a dream. However, he bought for hisfamily all they wanted and lastly he went to his wife in huge joyand gladness. So far concerning him. but as regards the cookmaid,she took the fish and cleansed them and set them in the fryingpan, basting them with oil till one side was dressed. Then sheturned them over and, behold, the kitchen wall crave asunder, andtherefrom came a young lady, fair of form, oval of face, perfectin grace, with eyelids which Kohl lines enchase. Herdress was a silken head kerchief fringed and tasseled with blue:a large ring hung from either ear. a pair of bracelets adornedher wrists. rings with bezels of priceless gems were on herfingers. and she hent in hand a long rod of rattan cane which shethrust into the frying pan, saying, "O fish! O fish! be yeconstant to your covenant?" When the cookmaiden saw thisapparition she swooned away. The young lady repeated her words asecond time and a third time, and at last the fishes raised theirheads from the pan, and saying in articulate speech "Yes! Yes!"began with one voice to recite: Come back and so will I! Keep faith and so will I! And if yefain forsake, I'll requite till quits we cry!After this the young lady upset the frying pan and went forth bythe way she came in and the kitchen wall closed upon her. Whenthe cook maiden recovered from her fainting fit, she saw the fourfishes charred black as charcoal, and crying out, "His staffbrake in his first bout," she again fell swooning to theground. Whilst she was in this case the Wazir came for the fishand looking upon her as insensible she lay, not knowing Sundayfrom Thursday, shoved her with his foot and said, "Bring the fishfor the Sultan!" Thereupon recovering from her fainting fit shewept and in formed him of her case and all that had befallen her.The Wazir marvelled greatly and exclaiming, "This is none otherthan a right strange matter!", he sent after the Fisherman andsaid to him, "Thou, O Fisherman, must needs fetch us four fisheslike those thou broughtest before." Thereupon the man repaired tothe tarn and cast his net. and when he landed it, lo! four fisheswere therein exactly like the first. These he at once carried tothe Wazir, who went in with them to the cook maiden and said, "Upwith thee and fry these in my presence, that I may see thisbusiness." The damsel arose and cleansed the fish, and set themin the frying pan over the fire. however they remained there buta little while ere the wall crave asunder and the young ladyappeared, clad as before and holding in hand the wand which sheagain thrust into the frying pan, saying, "O fish! O fish! be yeconstant to your olden covenant?" And behold, the fish liftedtheir heads, and repeated "Yes! Yes!" and recited this couplet:Come back and so will I! Keep faith and so will I! But if yefain forsake, I'll requite till quits we cry!And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying herpermitted say.When it was the Seventh Night,She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that whenthe fishes spoke, and the young lady upset the frying pan withher rod, and went forth by the way she came and the wall closedup, the Wazir cried out, "This is a thing not to be hidden fromthe King." So he went and told him what had happened, where uponquoth the King, "There is no help for it but that I see this withmine own eyes." Then he sent for the Fisherman and commended himto bring four other fish like the first and to take with himthree men as witnesses. The Fisherman at once brought the fish:and the King, after ordering them to give him four hundred goldpieces, turned to the Wazir and said, "Up and fry me the fisheshere before me!" The Minister, replying "To hear is to obey,"bade bring the frying pan, threw therein the cleansed fish andset it over the fire. when lo! the wall crave asunder, and outburst a black slave like a huge rock or a remnant of the tribeAd bearing in hand a branch of a green tree. and he criedin loud and terrible tones, "O fish! O fish! be ye all constantto your antique covenant?" whereupon the fishes lifted theirheads from the frying pan and said, "Yes! Yes ! we be true to ourvow." and they again recited the couplet:Come back and so will I! Keep faith and so will I! But if yefain forsake, I'll requite till quits we cry!Then the huge blackamoor approached the frying pan and upset itwith the branch and went forth by the way he came in. When hevanished from their sight the King inspected the fish. andfinding them all charred black as charcoal, was utterlybewildered and said to the Wazir, "Verily this is a matterwhereanent silence cannot be kept, and as for the fishes,assuredly some marvellous adventure connects with them." So hebade bring the Fisherman and asked him, saying "Fie on thee,fellow! whence came these fishes?" and he answered, "From a tarnbetween four heights lying behind this mountain which is in sightof thy city." Quoth the King, "How many days' march?" Quoth he,"O our lord the Sultan, a walk of half hour." The King wonderedand, straight way ordering his men to march and horsemen tomount, led off the Fisherman who went before as guide, privilydamning the Ifrit. They fared on till they had climbed themountain and descended unto a great desert which they had neverseen during all their lives. and the Sultan and his merry menmarvelled much at the wold set in the midst of four mountains,and the tarn and its fishes of four colours, red and white,yellow and blue. The King stood fixed to the spot in wondermentand asked his troops and all present, "Hath any one among youever seen this piece of water before now?" and all made answer,"O King of the age never did we set eyes upon it during all ourdays." They also questioned the oldest inhabitants they met, menwell stricken in years, but they replied, each and every, "Alakelet this we never saw in this place." Thereupon quoth theKing, "By Allah I will neither return to my capital nor sit uponthe throne of my forbears till I learn the truth about this tarnand the fish therein." He then ordered his men to dismount andbivouac all around the mountain. which they did. and summoninghis Wazir, a Minister of much experience, sagacious, ofpenetrating wit and well versed in affairs, said to him, "'Tis inmy mind to do a certain thing whereof I will inform thee. myheart telleth me to fare forth alone this night and root out themystery of this tarn and its fishes. Do thou take thy seat at mytent door, and say to the Emirs and Wazirs, the Nabobs and theChamberlains, in fine to all who ask thee: The Sultan is ill atease, and he hath ordered me to refuse all admittance.and be careful thou let none know my design." And the Wazir couldnot oppose him. Then the King changed his dress and ornamentsand, slinging his sword over his shoulder, took a path which ledup one of the mountains and marched for the rest of the nighttill morning dawned. nor did he cease wayfaring till the heat wastoo much for him. After his long walk he rested for a while, andthen resumed his march and fared on through the second night tilldawn, when suddenly there appeared a black point in the fardistance. Hereat he rejoiced and said to himself, "Haply some onehere shall acquaint me with the mystery of the tarn and itsfishes." Presently drawing near the dark object he found it apalace built of swart stone plated with iron. and, while one leafof the gate stood wide open, the other was shut, The King'sspirits rose high as he stood before the gate and rapped a lightrap. but hearing no answer he knocked a second knock and a third.yet there came no sign. Then he knocked his loudest but still noanswer, so he said, "Doubtless 'tis empty." Thereupon he musteredup resolution and boldly walked through the main gate into thegreat hall and there cried out aloud, "Holla, ye people of thepalace! I am a stranger and a wayfarer. have you aught here ofvictual?" He repeated his cry a second time and a third but stillthere came no reply. so strengthening his heart and making up hismind he stalked through the vestibule into the very middle of thepalace and found no man in it. Yet it was furnished with silkenstuffs gold starred. and the hangings were let down over the doorways. In the midst was a spacious court off which set four opensaloons each with its raised dais, saloon facing saloon. a canopyshaded the court and in the centre was a jetting fount with fourfigures of lions made of red gold, spouting from their mouthswater clear as pearls and diaphanous gems. Round about the palacebirds were let loose and over it stretched a net of golden wire,hindering them from flying off. in brief there was everything buthuman beings. The King marvelled mightily thereat, yet felt hesad at heart for that he saw no one to give him account of thewaste and its tarn, the fishes, the mountains and the palaceitself. Presently as he sat between the doors in deep thoughtbehold, there came a voice of lament, as from a heart grief spentand he heard the voice chanting these verses: I hid what I endured of him and yet it came to light,And nightly sleep mine eyelids fled and changed to sleeplessnight:Oh world! Oh Fate! withhold thy hand and cease thy hurt andharm Look and behold my hapless sprite in colour andaffright:Wilt ne'er show ruth to highborn youth who lost him on the wayOf Love, and fell from wealth and fame to lowest basestwight.Jealous of Zephyr's breath was I as on your form he breathedBut whenas Destiny descends she blindeth human sightWhat shall the hapless archer do who when he fronts his foe Andbends his bow to shoot the shaft shall find his stringundight?When cark and care so heavy bear on youth of generoussoul How shall he 'scape his lot and where from Fate hisplace of flight?Now when the Sultan heard the mournful voice he sprang to hisfeet. and, following the sound, found a curtain let down over achamber door. He raised it and saw behind it a young man sittingupon a couch about a cubit above the ground. and he fair to thesight, a well shaped wight, with eloquence dight. his foreheadwas flower white, his cheek rosy bright, and a mole on his cheekbreadth like an ambergris mite. even as the poet cloth indite: A youth slim waisted from whose locks and brow The world inblackness and in light is set.Throughout Creation's round no fairer show No rarer sight thineeye hath ever met:A nut brown mole sits throned upon a cheek Of rosiest redbeneath an eye of jet.The King rejoiced and saluted him, but he remained sitting in hiscaftan of silken stuff pureed with Egyptian gold and his crownstudded with gems of sorts. but his face was sad with the tracesof sorrow. He returned the royal salute in most courteous wiseadding, "O my lord, thy dignity demandeth my rising to thee. andmy sole excuse is to crave thy pardon." Quoth the King,"Thou art excused, O youth. so look upon me as thy guest comehither on an especial object. I would thou acquaint me with thesecrets of this tarn and its fishes and of this palace and thyloneliness therein and the cause of thy groaning and wailing."When the young man heard these words he wept with soreweeping. till his bosom was drenched with tears and beganreciting Say him who careless sleeps what while the shaft of Fortune fliesHow many cloth this shifting world lay low and raise torise?Although thine eye be sealed in sleep, sleep not th' Almighty'seyes And who hath found Time ever fair, or Fate inconstant guise?Then he sighed a long fetched sigh and recited: Confide thy case to Him, the Lord who made mankind. Quit carkand care and cultivate content of mind.Ask not the Past or how or why it came to pass: All humanthings by Fate and Destiny were designed!The King marvelled and asked him, "What maketh thee weep, O youngman?" and he answered, "How should I not weep, when this is mycase!" Thereupon he put out his hand and raised the skirt of hisgarment, when lo! the lower half of him appeared stone down tohis feet while from his navel to the hair of his head he was man.The King, seeing this his plight, grieved with sore grief and ofhis compassion cried, "Alack and well away! in very sooth, Oyouth, thou heapest sorrow upon my sorrow. I was minded to askthee the mystery of the fishes only: whereas now I am concernedto learn thy story as well as theirs. But there is no Majesty andthere is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great!Lose no time, O youth, but tell me forthright thy whole tale."Quoth he, "Lend me thine ears, thy sight and thine insight." andquoth the King, "All are at thy service!" Thereupon the youthbegan, "Right wondrous and marvellous is my case and that ofthese fishes. and were it graven with gravers upon the eyecorners it were a warner to whoso would be warned." "How isthat?" asked the King, and the young man began to tell