A long time ago a little town made up of a collection of low huts stoodin a tiny green valley at the foot of a cliff. Of course the people hadtaken great care to build their houses out of reach of the highest tidewhich might be driven on shore by a west wind, but on the very edge of thetown there had sprung up a tree so large that half its boughs hung overthe huts and the other half over the deep sea right under the cliff, wheresharks loved to come and splash in the clear water.The branches of the tree itself were laden with fruit, and every day atsunrise a big gray monkey might have been seen sitting in the topmostbranches having his breakfast, and chattering to himself with delight.After he had eaten all the fruit on the town side of the tree themonkey swung himself along the branches to the part which hung over thewater. While he was looking out for a nice shady place where he mightperch comfortably, he noticed a shark watching him from below with greedyeyes."Can I do anything for you, my friend?" asked the monkey politely."Oh! if you only would throw me down some of those delicious things, Ishould be so grateful," answered the shark. "After you have lived on fishfor fifty years you begin to feel you would like a change. And I am sovery, very tired of the taste of salt.""Well, I don't like salt myself," said the monkey, "so if you will openyour mouth I will throw this beautiful juicy kuyu into it," and, as hespoke, he pulled one off the branch just over his head. But it was not soeasy to hit the shark's mouth as he supposed, even when the creature hadturned on his back, and the first kuyu only struck one of his teeth androlled into the water. However, the second time the monkey had betterluck, and the fruit fell right in."Ah, how good!" cried the shark. "Send me another, please," and themonkey grew tired of picking the kuyu long before the shark was tired ofeating them."It is getting late, and I must be going home to my children," he said,at length, "but if you are here at the same time tomorrow I will give youanother treat.""Thank you, thank you," said the shark, showing all his great uglyteeth as he grinned with delight. "You can't guess how happy you have mademe," and he swam away into the shadow, hoping to sleep away the time tillthe monkey came again.For weeks the monkey and the shark breakfasted together, and it was awonder that the tree had any fruit left for them. They became fastfriends, and told each other about their homes and their children, and howto teach them all they ought to know.By and by the monkey became rather discontented with his green house ina grove of palms beyond the town, and longed to see the strange thingsunder the sea which he had heard of from the shark. The shark perceivedthis very clearly, and described greater marvels. And the monkey, as helistened, grew more and more gloomy.Matters were in this state when one day the shark said, "I reallyhardly know how to thank you for your kindness to me during these weeks.Here I have nothing of my own to offer you, but if you would only consentto come home with me, how gladly would I give you anything that mighthappen to take your fancy.""I should like nothing better," cried the monkey, his teeth chattering,as they always did when he was pleased. "But how could I get there? Not bywater, Ugh! It makes me ill to think of it!""Oh! don't let that trouble you," replied the shark. "You have only tosit on my back and I will undertake that not a drop of water shall touchyou."So it was arranged, and directly after breakfast next morning the sharkswam close up under the tree, and the monkey dropped neatly on his back,without even a splash. After a few minutes   for at first he felt alittle frightened at his strange position   the monkey began to enjoyhimself vastly, and asked the shark a thousand questions about the fishand the seaweeds and the oddly shaped things that floated past them, andas the shark always gave him some sort of answer, the monkey never guessedthat many of the objects they saw were as new to his guide as tohimself.The sun had risen and set six times when the shark suddenly said, "Myfriend, we have now performed half our journey, and it is time that Ishould tell you something.""What is it?" asked the monkey. "Nothing unpleasant, I hope, for yousound rather grave.""Oh, no! Nothing at all. It is only that shortly before we left I heardthat the sultan of my country is very ill, and that the only thing to curehim is a monkey's heart.""Poor man, I am very sorry for him," replied the monkey. "but you wereunwise not to tell me till we had started.""What do you mean?" asked the shark. But the monkey, who now understoodthe whole plot, did not answer at once, for he was considering what heshould say."Why are you so silent?" inquired the shark again."I was thinking what a pity it was you did not tell me while I wasstill on land, and then I would have brought my heart with me.""Your heart! Why isn't your heart here?" said the shark, with a puzzledexpression."Oh, no! Of course not. Is it possible you don't know that when weleave home we always hang up our hearts on trees, to prevent their beingtroublesome? However, perhaps you won't believe that, and will just thinkI have invented it because I am afraid, so let us go on to your country asfast as we can, and when we arrive you can look for my heart, and if youfind it you can kill me."The monkey spoke in such a calm indifferent way that the shark wasquite deceived, and began to wish he had not been in such a hurry."But there is no use going on if your heart is not with you," he saidat last. "We had better turn back to the town, and then you can fetchit."Of course, this was just what the monkey wanted, but he was careful notto seem too pleased."Well, I don't know," he remarked carelessly. "It is such a long way.but you may be right.""I am sure I am," answered the shark, "and I will swim as quickly as Ican," and so he did, and in three days they caught sight of the kuyu treehanging over the water.With a sigh of relief the monkey caught hold of the nearest branch andswung himself up."Wait for me here," he called out to the shark. "I am so hungry I musthave a little breakfast, and then I will go and look for my heart," and hewent further and further into the branches so that the shark could not seehim. Then he curled himself up and went to sleep."Are you there?" cried the shark, who was soon tired of swimming aboutunder the cliff, and was in haste to be gone.The monkey awoke with a start, but did not answer."Are you there ?" called the shark again, louder than before, andin a very cross voice."Oh, yes. I am here," replied the monkey. "but I wish you had notwakened me up. I was having such a nice nap.""Have you got it?" asked the shark. "It is time we were going.""Going where ?" inquired the monkey."Why, to my country, of course, with your heart. You can't haveforgotten!""My dear friend," answered the monkey, with a chuckle, "I think youmust be going a little mad. Do you take me for a washerman's donkey?""Don't talk nonsense," exclaimed the shark, who did not like beinglaughed at. "What do you mean about a washerman's donkey? And I wish youwould be quick, or we may be too late to save the sultan.""Did you really never hear of the washerman's donkey?" asked themonkey, who was enjoying himself immensely. "Why, he is the beast who hasno heart. And as I am not feeling very well, and am afraid to start whilethe sun is so high lest I should get a sunstroke, if you like, I will comea little nearer and tell you his story.""Very well," said the shark sulkily, "if you won't come, I suppose Imay as well listen to that as do nothing."So the monkey began.A washerman once lived in the great forest on the other side of the town,and he had a donkey to keep him company and to carry him wherever hewanted to go. For a time they got on very well, but by and by the donkeygrew lazy and ungrateful for her master's kindness, and ran away severalmiles into the heart of the forest, where she did nothing but eat and eatand eat, till she grew so fat she could hardly move.One day as she was tasting quite a new kind of grass and wondering ifit was as good as what she had had for dinner the day before, a harehappened to pass by."Well, that is a fat creature," thought she, and turned out ofher path to tell the news to a lion who was a friend of hers. Now the lionhad been very ill and was not strong enough to go hunting for himself, andwhen the hare came and told him that a very fat donkey was to be foundonly a few hundred yards off, tears of disappointment and weakness filledhis eyes."What is the good of telling me that?" he asked in a weepy voice. "Youknow I cannot even walk as far as that palm.""Never mind," answered the hare briskly. "If you can't go to yourdinner, your dinner shall come to you," and nodding a farewell to the lionshe went back to the donkey."Good morning," said she, bowing politely to the donkey, who lifted herhead in surprise. "Excuse my interrupting you, but I have come on veryimportant business.""Indeed," answered the donkey, "it is most kind of you to take thetrouble. May I inquire what the business is?""Certainly," replied the hare. "It is my friend the lion who has heardso much of your charms and good qualities that he has sent me to beg thatyou will give him your paw in marriage. He regrets deeply that he isunable to make the request in person, but he has been ill and is too weakto move.""Poor fellow! How sad!" said the donkey. "But you must tell him that Ifeel honored by his proposal and will gladly consent to be Queen of theBeasts.""Will you not come and tell him so yourself?" asked the hare.Side by side they went down the road which led to the lion's house. Ittook a long while, for the donkey was so fat with eating she could onlywalk very slowly, and the hare, who could have run the distance in aboutfive minutes, was obliged to creep along till she almost dropped withfatigue at not being able to go at her own pace.When at last they arrived the lion was sitting up at the entrance,looking very pale and thin. The donkey suddenly grew shy and hung herhead, but the lion put on his best manners and invited both his visitorsto come in and make themselves comfortable.Very soon the hare go up and said, "Well, as I have another engagementI will leave you to make acquaintance with your future husband," andwinking at the lion she bounded away.The donkey expected that as soon as they were left alone the lion wouldbegin to speak of their marriage, and where they should live, but as hesaid nothing she looked up.To her surprise and terror she saw him crouching in the corner, hiseyes glaring with a red light, and with a loud roar he sprang towards her.But in that moment the donkey had had time to prepare herself, and jumpingon one side dealt the lion such a hard kick that he shrieked with thepain. Again and again he struck at her with his claws, but the donkeycould bite too, as well as the lion, who was very weak after his illness,and at last a well planted kick knocked him right over, and he rolled onthe floor, groaning with pain.The donkey did not wait for him to get up, but ran away as fast as shecould and was lost in the forest.Now the hare, who knew quite well what would happen, had not gone to doher business, but hid herself in some bushes behind the cave, where shecould hear quite clearly the sounds of the battle. When all was quietagain she crept gently out, and stole round the corner."Well, lion, have you killed her?" asked she, running swiftly up thepath."Killed her, indeed!" answered the lion sulkily, "it is she who hasnearly killed me. I never knew a donkey could kick like that, though Itook care she should carry away the marks of my claws.""Dear me! Fancy such a great fat creature being able to fight!" criedthe hare. "But don't vex yourself. Just lie still, and your wounds willsoon heal," and she bade her friend good bye, and returned to her family.Two or three weeks passed, and only bare places on the donkey's backshowed where the lion's claws had been, while, on his side, the lion hadrecovered from his illness and was now as strong as ever. He was beginningto think that it was almost time for him to begin hunting again, when onemorning a rustle was heard in the creepers outside, and the hare's headpeeped through."Ah! there is no need to ask how you are," she said. "Still you mustn'tovertire yourself, you know. Shall I go and bring you your dinner?""If you will bring me that donkey I will tear it in two," cried thelion savagely, and the hare laughed and nodded and went on her errand.This time the donkey was much further than before, and it took longerto find her. At last the hare caught sight of four hoofs in the air, andran towards them. The donkey was lying on a soft cool bed of moss near astream, rolling herself backwards and forwards from pleasure."Good morning," said the hare politely, and the donkey got slowly ontoher legs, and looked to see who her visitor could be."Oh, it is you , is it?" she exclaimed. "Come and have a chat.What news have you got?""I mustn't stay," answered the hare. "but I promised the lion to begyou to pay him a visit, as he is not well enough to call on you.""Well, I don't know," replied the donkey gloomily. "The last time wewent he scratched me very badly, and really I was quite afraid.""He was only trying to kiss you," said the hare, "and you bit him, andof course that made him cross.""If I were sure of that ," hesitated the donkey."Oh, you may be quite sure," laughed the hare. "I have a largeacquaintance among lions. But let us be quick," and rather unwillingly thedonkey set out.The lion saw them coming and hid himself behind a large tree. As thedonkey went past, followed by the hare, he sprang out, and with one blowof his paw stretched the poor foolish creature dead before him."Take this meat and skin it and roast it," he said to the hare. "but myappetite is not so good as it was, and the only part I want for myself isthe heart. The rest you can either eat yourself or give away to yourfriends.""Thank you," replied the hare, balancing the donkey on her back as wellas she was able, and though the legs trailed along the ground she managedto drag it to an open space some distance off, where she made a fire androasted it.As soon as it was cooked, the hare took out the heart and had justfinished eating it when the lion, who was tired of waiting, came up."I am hungry," said he. "Bring me the creature's heart. It is just whatI want for supper.""But there is no heart," answered the hare, looking up at the lion witha puzzled face."What nonsense!" said the lion. "As if every beast had not got a heart.What do you mean?""This is a washerman's donkey," replied the hare gravely."Well, and suppose it is?""Oh, fie!" exclaimed the fare. "You, a lion and a grown up person, andask questions like that. If the donkey had had a heart would she be herenow? The first time she came she knew you were trying to kill her, and ranaway. Yet she came back a second time. Well, if she had had a heart wouldshe have come back a second time? Now would she?"And the lion answered slowly, "No, she would not.""So you think I am a washerman's donkey?" said the monkey to the shark,when the story was ended. "You are wrong. I am not. And as the sun isgetting low in the sky, it is time for you to begin your homeward journey.You will have a nice cool voyage, and I hope you will find the sultanbetter. Farewell!"And the monkey disappeared among the green branches, and was gone.