When God had created the world, he called all his creatures together togrant them their span of life, and to tell them how long they would liveand what manner of life they would lead.The first to appear before God was man. And God said to him, "You, man,shall be king of the world, walking erect upon your feet and looking up toheaven. I give you a noble countenance. The power of thought and judgmentshall be yours, and the capacity of disclosing your innermost thoughts bymeans of speech. All that lives and moves and goes about the earth shallbe under your rule, the winged birds and the creeping things shall obeyyou. Yours shall be all the fruits of the tree and land, and your lifeshall be thirty years."Then man turned away dissatisfied and grumbling. "What is the good ofliving in pleasure and in might, if all the years of my life are to bethirty only?" So did man speak and grumble, especially when he heard ofthe years granted to other animals.The turn came to the donkey. He stepped forward to hear what God haddecreed for him.The Creator said, "You shall work hard. you shall carry heavy burdens andbe constantly beaten. You shall always be scolded and have very littlerest. Your food shall be a poor one of thistles and thorns, and your lifeshall be fifty years."When the donkey heard what God had decreed for him he fell upon his kneesand cried, "All merciful Creator, am I indeed to lead such a miserablelife, and am I to have such poor food as thistles and thorns. Am I towork so hard and carry such heavy burdens and then live on for fifty yearsin such misery? Have pity on me and take off twenty years."Then man, greedy of long life, stepped forward and begged for himselfthese twenty years which the donkey had rejected. And the Lord grantedthem to him.Then came the dog. To him the Creator said, "You shall guard the houseand the property of your master. You shall cling to them as if you wereafraid of losing them. You shall bark even at the shadow of the moon, andfor all your trouble you shall gnaw bones and eat raw meat, and your lifeshall be forty years.""All merciful Creator," cried the dog, "if my life is to be of worry andtrouble, and if I am to live on bones and raw stuff, take off, I pray,twenty years."Again man, greedy of life, stepped forward and begged the Creator to givehim the twenty years rejected by the dog. And the Creator again grantedhis request.Now it was the turn of the monkey.The creator said, "You shall only have the likeness of man, but not beman. You shall be stupid and childish. Your back shall be bent. You shallbe an object of mockery to the children and a laughingstock of fools, andyour life shall be sixty years."When the monkey heard what was decreed for him, he fell upon his knees andsaid, "All merciful God, in your wisdom you have decided that I should bea man and not a man, that my back shall be bent, that I shall be alaughing stock for young and fools and I shall be stupid. Take, in mercy,thirty years off my life."And God, the all merciful, granted his request. And again, man, whosegreed can never be satisfied, stepped forward and asked also for thesethirty years which the monkey had rejected. And again God gave them tohim.Then God dismissed all the animals and all his creatures, and each onewent to his appointed station and to the life that has been granted tohim.And as man had asked, so has it come to pass.Man lives as a king andruler over all creatures for the thirty years which the Lord had given tohim, in joy and in happiness, without care and without trouble.Then come the years from thirty to fifty, which are the years of thedonkey. they are full of hard work, heavy burdens, and little food, forman is anxious to gather and to lay up something for the years to come.It could not be otherwise, for were not these the years which he had takenover from the donkey?Then come the years from fifty to seventy, when mansits at home and guards with great trembling and fear the little that hepossesses, fearful of every shadow, eating little, always keeping othersaway lest they rob him of that which he has gathered, and barking at everyonewhom he suspects of wanting to take away what belongs to him. And nowonder that he behaves like that, for these are the dog's years, which manhad asked for himself.And if a man lives beyond seventy, then his backgets bent, his face changes, his mind gets clouded, he becomes childish, alaughingstock for children, an amusement for the fool, and these are theyears which man had taken over from the monkey.