And now hath one digression drawne on another, for being by reason of speaking of these Saxons of Transilvania , put in mind of a most true and marvelous strange accident that hapned in Saxonie not manie ages past, I cannot omit for the strangenesse thereof briefely here by the way to set it downe.There came into the towne of Hamel in the countrie of Brunswicke an old kind of companion, who for the fantasticall coate which he wore being wrought with sundrie colours, was called the pide Piper. for a Piper he was, besides his other qualities.This fellow forsooth offered the townse men for a certaine somme of money to rid the towne of all the rats that were in it (for at that time the Burgers were with that vermine greatly annoyed).The accord in fine being made. the pide Piper with a shrill pipe went piping through the streets, and forthwith the rats came all running out of the houses in great numbers after him. all which hee led into the river of Weaser and therein drowned them.This done, and no one rat more perceived to bee left in the towne. he afterward came to demand his reward according to his bargaine, but being told that the bargain was not made with him in good earnest, to wit, with an opinion that ever he could bee able to doe such a feat they cared not what they accorded unto, when they imagined it could never bee deserved, and so never to be demanded: but neverthelesse seeing he had done such an unlikely thing indeed, they were content to give him a good reward. and so offered him farre lesse then he lookt for. but hee therewith discontented, said he would have his full recompence according to his bargain, but they utterly denying to give it him, he threatened them with revenge. they bade him doe his worst, whereupon he betakes him againe to his pipe, and going through the streets as before, was followed of a number of boyes out at one of the gates of the Citie, and comming to a little hill, there opened in the side thereof a wid hole, into the which himselfe   all the children being in number one hundreth and thirtie, did enter. and being entred, the hill closed up againe, and became as before.A boy that being lame and came somewhat lagging behind the rest, seeing this that hapned, returned presently backe and told what he had seene, foorthwith began great lamentation among the Parents for their children, and men were sent out with all diligence, both by land and by water to inquire if ought could be heard of them, but with all the enquirie they could possibly use, nothing more then is aforesaid could of them be understood.In memorie whereof it was then ordained, that from thence foorth no Drumme, Pipe or other instrument, should be sounded in the street leading to the gate through which they passed. nor no Osterie to be there holden. And it was also established, that from that time forward in all publike writings that should bee made in that towne, after the date therein set downe of the yeare of our Lord, the date of the yeare of the going foorth of their children should bee added, the which they have accordingly ever since continued. And this great wonder hapned on the 22. day of July in the yeare of our Lord, 1376.The occasion now why this matter came unto my remembrance in speaking of Translvania , was, for that some do report that there are divers found among the Saxons in Translvania that have like surnames unto divers of the Burgers of Hamel , and will therby seeme to inferre, that this Jugler or pide Piper, might by negromancy have transported them thither, but this carrieth litle appearence of truth. because it would have beene almost as great a wonder unto the Saxon of Transilvania to have had so many strange children brought among them, they knew not how, as it was to those of Hamel to lose them: and they could not but have kept memorie of so strange a thing, if indeed any such thing had there hapned.