Connected with Alderley Edge there is a curious tradition which preservesa very ancient fragment of mythological belief, and is, therefore, worthyof notice.The legend of the wizard of Alderley Edge first appeared in print in theManchester Mail of 1805, by a correspondent who obtained it fromthe narration of a servant of the Stanleys, whose proper name was ThomasBroadhurst, but who was better known as "Old Daddy."According to this veteran the tradition says that once upon a time afarmer from Mobberley, mounted on a milk white horse, was crossing theEdge on his way to Macclesfield to sell the animal. He had reached a spotknown as the Thieves' Hole, and, as he slowly rode along thinking of theprofitable bargain which he hoped to make, was startled by the suddenappearance of an old man, tall and strangely clad in a deep flowinggarment. The old man ordered him to stop, told him that he knew the errandupon which the rider was bent, and offered a sum of money for the horse.The farmer, however, refused the offer, not thinking it sufficient."Go, then, to Macclesfield," said the old man, "but mark my words, youwill not sell the horse. Should you find my words come true, meet me thisevening, and I will buy your horse."The farmer laughed at such a prophecy, and went on his way. To his greatsurprise, and greater disappointment, nobody would buy, though all admiredhis beautiful horse. He was, therefore, compelled to return. Onapproaching the Edge he saw the old man again. Checking his horse's pace,he began to consider how far it might be prudent to deal with a perfectstranger in so lonely a place.However, while he was considering what to do, the old man commanded him,"Follow me!"Silently the old man led him by the Seven Firs, the Golden Stone, byStormy Point, and Saddle Boll. Just as the farmer was beginning to thinkhe had gone far enough he fancied that he heard a horse neighingunderground. Again he heard it. Stretching forth his arm the old mantouched a rock with a wand, and immediately the farmer saw a ponderouspair of iron gates, which, with a sound like thunder, flew open. The horsereared bolt upright, and the terrified farmer fell on his knees prayingthat his life might be spared."Fear nothing," spoke the Wizard, "and behold a sight which no mortal eyehas ever looked upon."They went into the cave. In a long succession of caverns the farmer saw acountless number of men and horses, the latter milk white, and all fastasleep. In the innermost cavern heaps of treasure were piled up on theground. From these glittering heaps the old man bade the farmer take theprice he desired for his horse, and thus addressed him, "You see these menand horses. the number was not complete. Your horse was wanted to make itcomplete. Remember my words, there will come a day when these men andthese horses, awakening from their enchanted slumber, will descend intothe plain, decide the fate of a great battle, and save their country. Thisshall be when George the son of George shall reign. Go home in safety.Leave your horse with me. No harm will befall you. but henceforward nomortal eye will ever look upon the iron gates. Begone!"The farmer lost no time in obeying. He heard the iron gates close with thesame fearful sounds with which they were opened, and made the best of hisway to Mobberley.