This chapter is not one of old Peter's stories, though there are,doubtless, some stories in it. It tells how Vanya and Maroosia droveto the village to see a new baby.Old Peter had a sister who lived in the village not so very far awayfrom the forest. And she had a plump daughter, and the daughter wascalled Nastasia, and she was married to a handsome peasant calledSergie, who had three cows, a lot of pigs, and a flock of fat geese.And one day when old Peter had gone to the village to buy tobacco andsugar and sunflower seeds, he came back in the evening, and said tothe children, "There's something new in the village.""What sort of a something?" asked Vanya."Alive," said old Peter."Is there a lot of it?" asked Vanya."No, only one.""Then it can't be pigs," said Vanya, in a melancholy voice. "I thoughtit was pigs.""Perhaps it is a little calf," said Maroosia."I know what it is," said Vanya."Well?""It's a foal. It's brown all over with white on its nose, and a lot ofwhite hairs in its tail.""No.""What is it then, grandfather?""I'll tell you, little pigeons. It's small and red, and it's got abumpy head with hair on it like the fluff of a duckling. It has blueeyes, and ten fingers to its fore paws, and ten toes to its hindfeet five to each.""It's a baby," said Maroosia."Yes. Nastasia has got a little son, Aunt Sofia has got a grandson,you have got a new cousin, and I have got a new great nephew. Think ofthat! Already it's a son, and a cousin, and a grandson, and agreat nephew, and he's only been alive twelve hours. He lost no timein taking a position for himself. He'll be a great man one of thesedays if he goes on as fast as that."The children had jumped up as soon as they knew it was a baby."When is the christening?""The day after to morrow.""O grandfather!""Well?""Who is going to the christening?""The baby, of course.""Yes. but other people?""All the village.""And us?""I have to go, and I suppose there'll be room in the cart for twolittle bear cubs like you."And so it was settled that Vanya and Maroosia were to go to thechristening of their new cousin, who was only twelve hours old. Allthe next day they could think of nothing else, and early on themorning of the christening they were up and about, Maroosia seeingthat Vanya had on a clean shirt, and herself putting a green ribbon inher hair. The sun shone, and the leaves on the trees were all new andbright, and the sky was pale blue through the flickering green leaves.Old Peter was up early too, harnessing the little yellow horse intothe old cart. The cart was of rough wood, without springs, like a bigbox fixed on long larch poles between two pairs of wheels. The larchpoles did instead of springs, bending and creaking, as the cart movedover the forest track. The shafts came from the front wheels upwardsto the horse's shoulders, and between the ends of them there was atall strong hoop of wood, called a douga, which rose high over theshoulders of the horse, above his collar, and had two little bellshanging from it at the top. The wooden hoop was painted green withlittle red flowers. The harness was mostly of ropes, but that did notmatter so long as it held together. The horse had a long tail andmane, and looked as untidy as a little boy. but he had a green ribbonin his forelock in honour of the christening, and he could go likeanything, and never got tired.When all was ready, old Peter arranged a lot of soft fresh hay in thecart for the children to sit in. Hay is the best thing in the world tosit in when you drive in a jolting Russian cart. Old Peter put in atremendous lot, so that the horse could eat some of it while waitingin the village, and yet leave them enough to make them comfortable onthe journey back. Finally, old Peter took a gun that he had spent allthe evening before in cleaning, and laid it carefully in the hay."What is the gun for?" asked Vanya."I am to be a godparent," said old Peter, "and I want to give him apresent. I could not give him a better present than a gun, for heshall be a forester, and a good shot, and you cannot begin too early."Presently Vanya and Maroosia were tucked into the hay, and old Peterclimbed in with the plaited reins, and away they went along the narrowforest track, where the wheels followed the ruts and splashed throughthe deep holes. for the spring was young, and the roads had not yetdried. Some of the deepest holes had a few pine branches laid in them,but that was the only road mending that ever was done. Overhead werethe tall firs and silver birches with their little pale round leaves.and somewhere, not far away, a cuckoo was calling, while the murmur ofthe wild pigeons never stopped for a moment.They drove on and on through the forest, and at last came out fromamong the trees into the open country, a broad, flat plain stretchingto the river. Far away they could see the big square sail of a boat,swelled out in the light wind, and they knew that there was the river,on the banks of which stood the village. They could see a small clumpof trees, and, as they came nearer, the pale green cupolas of thewhite village church rising above the tops of the birches.Presently they came to a rough wooden bridge, and crossed over alittle stream that was on its way to join the big river.Vanya looked at it."Grandfather," he asked, "when the frost went, which was waterfirst the big river or the little river?""Why, the little river, of course," said old Peter. "It's always thelittle streams that wake first in the spring, and running down to thebig river make it swell and flood and break up the ice. It's alwaysbeen so ever since the quarrel between the Vazouza and the Volga.""What was that?" said Vanya."It was like this," said old Peter.The Vazouza and the Volga flow for a long way side by side, and thenthey join and flow together. And the Vazouza is a little river. butthe Volga is the mother of all Russia, and the greatest river in theworld.And the little Vazouza was jealous of the Volga."You are big and noisy," she says to the Volga, "and terribly strong.but as for brains," says she, "why, I have more brains in a singleripple than you in all that lump of water."Of course the Volga told her not to be so rude, and said that littlerivers should know their place and not argue with the great.But the Vazouza would not keep quiet, and at last she said to theVolga: "Look here, we will lie down and sleep, and we will agree thatthe one of us who wakes first and comes first to the sea is the wiserof the two."And the Volga said, "Very well, if only you will stop talking."So the little Vazouza and the big Volga lay and slept, white andstill, all through the winter. And when the spring came, the littleVazouza woke first, brisk and laughing and hurrying, and rushed awayas hard as she could go towards the sea. When the Volga woke thelittle Vazouza was already far ahead. But the Volga did not hurry. Shewoke slowly and shook the ice from herself, and then came roaringafter the Vazouza, a huge foaming flood of angry water.And the little Vazouza listened as she ran, and she heard the Volgacoming after her. and when the Volga caught her up a tremendousfoaming river, whirling along trees and blocks of ice she wasfrightened, and she said, "O Volga, let me be your little sister. I will never argue with youany more. You are wiser than I and stronger than I. Only take me bythe hand and bring me with you to the sea."And the Volga forgave the little Vazouza, and took her by the hand andbrought her safely to the sea. And they have never quarrelled again.But all the same, it is always the little Vazouza that gets up firstin the spring, and tugs at the white blankets of ice and snow, andwakes her big sister from her winter sleep.They drove on over the flat open country, with no hedges, but onlyditches to drain off the floods, and very often not even ditches todivide one field from another. And huge crows, with gray hoods andshawls, pecked about in the grass at the roadside or flew heavily inthe sunshine. They passed a little girl with a flock of geese, andanother little girl lying in the grass holding a long rope which wasfastened to the horns of a brown cow. And the little girl lay on herface and slept among the flowers, while the cow walked slowly roundher, step by step, chewing the grass and thinking about nothing atall.And at last they came to the village, where the road was wider. andinstead of one pair of ruts there were dozens, and the cart bumpedworse than ever. The broad earthy road had no stones in it. and inplaces where the puddles would have been deeper than the axles of thewheels, it had been mended by laying down fir logs and small branchesin the puddles, and putting a few spadefuls of earth on the top ofthem.The road ran right through the village. On either side of it werelittle wooden huts. The ends of the timbers crossed outside at thefour corners of the huts. They fitted neatly into each other, and someof them were carved. And there were no slates or tiles on the roofs,but little thin slips of wood overlapping each other. There was not asingle stone hut or cottage in the village. Only the church was partlybrick, whitewashed, with bright green cupolas up in the air, and thingold crosses on the tops of the cupolas, shining in the clear sky.Outside the church were rows of short posts, with long rough firtimbers nailed on the top of them, to which the country people tiedtheir horses when they came to church. There were several carts therealready, with bright coloured rugs lying on the hay in them. and thehorses were eating hay or biting the logs. Always, except when thelogs are quite new, you can tell the favourite places for tying uphorses to them, because the timbers will have deep holes in them,where they have been gnawed away by the horses' teeth. They bite thetimbers, while their masters eat sunflower seeds, not for food, but topass the time."Now then," said old Peter, as he got down from the cart, tied thehorse, gave him an armful of hay from the cart, and lifted thechildren out. "Be quick. We shall be late if we don't take care. Ibelieve we are late already. Good health to you, Fedor," he said toan old peasant. "and has the baby gone in?""He has, Peter. And my health is not so bad. and how is yours?""Good also, Fedor, thanks be to God. And will you see to these two?for I am a godparent, and must be near the priest.""Willingly," said the old peasant Fedor. "How they do grow, to besure, like young birch trees. Come along then, little pigeons."Old Peter hurried into the church, followed by Fedor with Vanya andMaroosia. They all crossed themselves and said a prayer as they wentin.The ceremony was just beginning.The priest, in his silk robes, was standing before the gold andpainted screen at the end of the church, and there were the basin ofholy water, and old Peter's sister, and the nurse Babka Tanya, veryproud, holding the baby in a roll of white linen, and rocking it toand fro. There were coloured pictures of saints all over the screen,which stretches from one side of the church to the other. Some of thepictures were framed in gilt frames under glass, and were partlypainted and partly metal. The faces and hands of the saints werepainted, and their clothes were glittering silver or gold. Littlelamps were burning in front of them, and candles.A Russian christening is very different from an English one. For onething, the baby goes right into the water, not once, but three times.Babka Tanya unrolled the baby, and the priest covered its face withhis hand, and down it went under the water, once, twice, and again.Then he took some of the sacred ointment on his finger and anointedthe baby's forehead, and feet, and hands, and little round stomach.Then, with a pair of scissors, he cut a little pinch of fluff from thebaby's head, and rolled it into a pellet with the ointment, and threwthe pellet into the holy water. And after that the baby was carriedsolemnly three times round the holy water. The priest blessed it andprayed for it. and there it was, a little true Russian, ready to becarried back to its mother, Nastasia, who lay at home in her cottagewaiting for it.When they got outside the church, they all went to Nastasia's cottageto congratulate her on her baby, and to tell her what good lungs ithad, and what a handsome face, and how it was exactly like its father.Nastasia smiled at Vanya and Maroosia. but they had no eyes except forthe baby, and for all that belonged to it, especially its cradle. Nowa Russian baby has a very much finer cradle than an English baby. Along fir pole is fastened in the middle and at one end to the beams inthe ceiling of the hut, so that the other end swings free, just belowthe rafters. From this end is hung a big basket, and on the ropes bywhich the basket hangs are fastened shawls of bright colours. The babyis tucked in the basket, the shawls closed round it. and as the motheror the nurse sits at her spinning, she just kicks the basket gentlynow and again, and it swings up and down from the end of the pole, asif it were hung from the branch of a tree.This baby had a fine new basket and a larch pole, newly fixed, whiteand shining, under the dark beams of the ceiling. It had presentsbesides old Peter's gun. It had a fine wooden spoon with a picture onit of a cottage and a fish. It had a wooden bowl and a painted mug,bought from one of the peddling barges that go up and down the riversselling chairs and crockery, just like the caravans that travel ourEnglish roads. And also, although it was so young, it had a littlesacred picture, made of metal, a picture of St. Nikolai. because thiswas St. Nikolai's day, and the baby was called Nikolai.There was a samovar already steaming in the cottage, and a great cakeof pastry, and cabbage and egg and fish. And there were cabbage soupwith sour cream, and black bread and a little white bread, and redkisel jelly and a huge jug of milk.And everybody ate and drank and talked as if they were never going tostop. The sun was warm, and presently the men went outside and sat ona log, leaning their backs against the wall of the hut and makingcigarettes and smoking, or eating sunflower seeds, cracking the huskswith their teeth, taking out the white kernels, and blowing the husksaway. And the women sat in the hut, and now and then brought outglasses of hot tea to the men, and then went back again to talk ofwhat a fine man the baby would be, and to remember other babies. Andthe old women looked at the young mothers and laughed, and said thatthey could remember the days when they were christened when they werebabies themselves, no bigger than the little Nikolai who swung in thebasket and squalled, or slept proudly, just as if he knew that all theworld belonged to him because he was so very young. And Vanya andMaroosia ate sunflower seeds too, and sometimes played outside thecottage and sometimes inside. but mostly stood very quiet close to theswinging cradle, waiting till old Babka Tanya, the nurse, should pullthe shawls a little way aside and let them see the pink, crumpledface of the little Nikolai, and the yellow fluff, just like aduckling's, which covered his bumpy pink head.At last, towards evening, old Peter packed what was left of the hayinto the cart, and packed Vanya and Maroosia in with the hay.Everybody said good byes all round, and Peter climbed in and took upthe rope reins."He'll be a fine man," he shouted through the door to Nastasia, "afine man. and God grant he'll be as healthy as he is good. Till wemeet again," he cried out merrily to the villagers. and Vanya andMaroosia waved their hands, and off they drove, back again to the hutin the forest.They were very much quieter on the way back than they had been whenthey drove to the village in the morning. And the early summer day wasquiet as it came to its end. There was a corncrake rattling in thefields, and more than once they saw frogs hop out of the road as theydrove by in the twilight. A hare ran before them through the dusk anddisappeared. And when they came to the wooden bridge over the stream,a tall gray bird with a long beak rose up from the bank and flewslowly away, carrying his long legs, like a thin pair of crutches,straight out behind him."Who is that?" asked Vanya sleepily from his nest in the hay."That is Mr. Crane," said old Peter. "Perhaps he is on his way tovisit Miss Heron and tell her that this time he has really made up hismind, and to ask her to let bygones be bygones.""What bygones?" said Vanya.Old Peter watched the crane's slow, steady flight above the low marshyground on either side of the stream, and then he said, "Why, surely you know all about that. It is an old story, little one,and I must have told it you a dozen times.""No, never, grandfather," said Maroosia. She was nearly as sleepy asVanya after the day in the village, and the fuss and pleasure of thechristening."Oh, well," said old Peter. and he told the tale of Mr. Crane and MissHeron as the cart bumped slowly along the rough road, while Vanya andMaroosia looked out with sleepy eyes from their nest of hay andlistened, and the sky turned green, and the trees grew dim, and thefrogs croaked in the ditches.Mr. Crane and Miss Heron lived in a marsh five miles across from end toend. They lived there, and fed on the frogs which they caught in theirlong bills, and held up in the air for a moment, and then swallowed,standing on one leg. The marsh was always damp, and there were alwaysplenty of frogs, and life went well for them, except that they sawvery little company. They had no one to pass the time of day with. ForMr. Crane had built his little hut on one side of the marsh, and MissHeron had built hers on the other.So it came into the head of Mr. Crane that it was dull work livingalone. If only I were married, he thought, there would be two of us todrink our tea beside the samovar at night, and I should not spend myevenings in melancholy, thinking only of frogs. I will go to see MissHeron, and I will offer to marry her.So off he flew to the other side of the marsh, flap, flap, with hislegs hanging out behind, just as we saw him to night. He came to theother side of the marsh, and flew down to the hut of Miss Heron. Hetapped on the door with his long beak."Is Miss Heron at home?""At home," said Miss Heron."Will you marry me?" said Mr. Crane."Of course I won't," said Miss Heron. "your legs are long andill shaped, and your coat is short, and you fly awkwardly, and you arenot even rich. You would have no dainties to feed me with. Off withyou, long bodied one, and don't come bothering me."She shut the door in his face.Mr. Crane looked the fool he thought himself, and went off home,wishing he had never made the journey.But as soon as he was gone, Miss Heron, sitting alone in her hut,began to think things over and to be sorry she had spoken in such ahurry."After all," thinks she, "it is poor work living alone. And Mr. Crane,in spite of what I said about his looks, is really a handsome enoughyoung fellow. Indeed at evening, when he stands on one leg, he is veryhandsome indeed. Yes, I will go and marry him."So off flew Miss Heron, flap, flap, over five miles of marsh, and cameto the hut of Mr. Crane."Is the master at home?""At home," said Mr. Crane."Ah, Mr. Crane," said Miss Heron, "I was chaffing you just now. Whenshall we be married?""No, Miss Heron," said Mr. Crane. "I have no need of you at all. I donot wish to marry, and I would not take you for my wife even if Idid. Clear out, and let me see the last of you." He shut the door.Miss Heron wept tears of shame, that ran from her eyes down her longbill and dropped one by one to the ground. Then she flew away home,wishing she had not come.As soon as she was gone Mr. Crane began to think, and he said tohimself, "What a fool I was to be so short with Miss Heron! It's dullliving alone. Since she wants it, I will marry her." And he flew offafter Miss Heron. He came to her hut, and told her, "Miss Heron, I have thought things over. I have decided to marry you.""Mr. Crane," said Miss Heron, "I, too, have thought things over. Iwould not marry you, not for ten thousand young frogs."Off flew Mr. Crane.As soon as he was gone Miss Heron thought, "Why didn't I agree tomarry Mr. Crane? It's dull alone. I will go at once and tell him Ihave changed my mind."She flew off to betroth herself. but Mr. Crane would have none of her,and she flew back again.And so they go on to this day first one and then the other flyingacross the marsh with an offer of marriage, and flying back withshame. They have never married, and never will."Grandfather," whispered Maroosia, tugging at old Peter's sleeve,"Vanya is asleep."They drove on through the forest silently, except for the creaking ofthe cart and the loud singing of the nightingales in the tops of thetall firs. They came at last to their hut."Ah!" said old Peter, as he lifted them out, first one and then theother. "it isn't only Vanya who's asleep." And he carried them in, andput them to bed without waking them.THE END.