Once upon a time there lived an old man and an old woman. The old man, whohad a kind heart, kept a young sparrow, which he tenderly nurtured. Butthe dame was a cross grained old thing. and one day, when the sparrow hadpecked at some paste with which she was going to starch her linen, sheflew into a great rage, and cut the sparrow's tongue and let it loose.When the old man came home from the hills and found that the bird hadflown, he asked what had become of it. so the old woman answered that shehad cut its tongue and let it go, because it had stolen her starchingpaste.Now the old man, hearing this cruel tale, was sorely grieved, and thoughtto himself, "Alas! Where can my bird be gone? Poor thing! Poor littletongue cut sparrow! Where is your home now?" and he wandered far and wide,seeking for his pet, and crying, "Mr. Sparrow! Mr. Sparrow! Where are youliving?"One day, at the foot of a certain mountain, the old man fell in with thelost bird. and when they had congratulated one another on their mutualsafety, the sparrow led the old man to his home, and, having introducedhim to his wife and chicks, set before him all sorts of dainties, andentertained him hospitably."Please partake of our humble fare," said the sparrow."Poor as it is, youare very welcome.""What a polite sparrow!" answered the old man, who remained for a longtime as the sparrow's guest, and was daily feasted right royally. At lastthe old man said that he must take his leave and return home. and thebird, offering him him two wicker baskets, begged him to carry them withhim as a parting present. One of the baskets was heavy, and the other waslight. so the old man, saying that as he was feeble and stricken in yearshe would only accept the light one, shouldered it, and trudged off home,leaving the sparrow family disconsolate at parting from him.When the old man got home, the dame grew very angry, and began to scoldhim, saying, "Well, and pray where have you been this many a day? A prettything, indeed, to be gadding about at your time of life!""Oh!" replied he, "I have been on a visit to the sparrows. and when Icame away, they gave me this wicker basket as a parting gift."Then they opened the basket to see what was inside, and, lo and behold! itwas full of gold and silver and precious things. When the old woman, whowas as greedy as she was cross, saw all the riches displayed before her,she changed her scolding strain, and could not contain herself for joy."I'll go and call upon the sparrows, too," said she, "and get a prettypresent." So she asked the old man the way to the sparrows' house, and setforth on her journey. Following his directions, she at last met thetongue cut sparrow, and exclaimed, "Well met! well met! Mr. Sparrow. Ihave been looking forward to the pleasure of seeing you." So she tried tonatter and cajole the sparrow by soft speeches.The bird could not but invite the dame to its home. but it took no painsto feast her, and said nothing about a parting gift. She, however, was notto be put off. so she asked for something to carry away with her inremembrance of her visit. The sparrow accordingly produced two baskets, asbefore, and the greedy old woman, choosing the heavier of the two, carriedit off with her. But when she opened the basket to see what was inside,all sorts of hobgoblins and elves sprang out of it, and began to tormenther.But the old man adopted a son, and his family grew rich and prosperous.What a happy old man!