Once a journeyman came to a peasant woman and asked her for a handout.She gave him something to eat and asked where he came from."From Paris," he answered, but the peasant woman, who was somewhat hardof hearing, understood "from paradise.""Oh," she said, "if you come from paradise then for sure you must knowmy blessed first husband, who was releasedfrom purgatory long ago and by now must be in heaven."The journeyman, who caught on very quickly, said, "Of course, I knowhim very well. But he is suffering from thesevere cold, and he asked me when I go to earth to look up his wife andask her if she wouldn't send him a pair of boots and some warm clothes."So the peasant woman put together a bundle of clothes from her secondhusband: boots, jacket, trousers, vest, and hat.These she gave to journeyman so he could take them to her husband inparadise. And then the journeyman disappeared with the clothes.When her husband came home, the woman told him that a little while agoa journeyman had been here, and that she hadgiven him boots and clothes for her blessed deceased husband, for thejourneyman had come directly from paradise.The man cursed about her stupidity, and asked in which direction thejourneyman had left, for he intended to pursue himand take the clothes away from him. In order to make better time, hechased after him on horseback.The journeyman had gone a good way down the main road when he saw arider in the distance. Seeing that it was apeasant, he immediately assumed that he was being pursued. Therefore hequickly threw the boots and the clothing over agarden fence, then sat down next to the road and placed his hat next tohim in the grass.When the peasant reached him, he asked him if he had seen a mancarrying a bundle of clothes and a pair of boots."Yes," said the sitting man, "I met him a little while ago, and he toldme where he was going. But you will never catchhim, because he will see from afar that you are chasing after him. But, doyou know what? If you will look after the bird thatI have here under my hat, I will get on your horse and ride after him andbring the clothes back to you. He won't run away from me."The peasant was very pleased with this, and he let the rascal mount hishorse, while he sat down on the ground and watched the bird.Hour after hour passed by, and the horse and rider did not return.Finally the peasant began to see the light. Cautiouslyhe lifted up the hat to see what kind of rare bird was under it. O horror!He held his nose and quickly put the hat back overthe "bird." Sadly he returned home.He arrived home on foot and without his horse and without the clothesand boots. His wife asked him where he had leftthe horse, and where the clothes and boots were."Oh," said the man, "he really was a messenger from heaven. I let himkeep the clothes and gave him the horse so hecould return to heaven faster."