According to an old legend, a long, long time ago horrible lindorms anddragons lived in the swamps and lakes of Lower Lusatia. They were likesnakes, only much larger, and they breathed smoke and flames. They laid towaste the surrounding land, and they devoured people and animals in largenumbers.Near the village of Zilmsdorf (Cielmow) (one of the oldest places inLusatia) there is a place out in an open field where flames as tall as aman often shoot up from the ground. People call it dragon fire, and theysay that the great dragon killed by Saint George lived there.Next to the old salt road that leads to Sorau (Zary) is a pile of stones.This is where the battle took place, and this is where a stone monument tothe saint once stood, depicting him high on his horse, lance in hand, andwith the dragon at his feet.This dragon had been eating thirty people every day and laying to wastethe farmland far and wide. It also was able to assume human form, in whichit caused the downfall of many people. It would rob them of their moneyand then bury them deep in the woods behind the Forstner Heath.Normally it would fly through the air, and when it did so it had to take aroute above Zilmsdorf. A certain man by the name of Wochner lived therewho was a well known exorcist. He had the ability to detain the dragonuntil a crowing cock from the area caught it by surprise. Every time thishappened it would have to drop its gold.Note by Karl Haupt:People made pilgrimages from far and wide to a statue of Saint George nearZilmsdorf. In 1615 the provincial governor Count Promnitz had it rebuilt,namely at the request of Emperor Matthias (given at a dedication ceremonyin Sorau in 1611). In about 1710 the stone was still standing there. Onthe north side was a carving of the knight Saint George on a horse withthe lindorm beneath him. The stone was seven yards high and three yardswide. The inscription from the seventeenth century on the west side read:Effigiem Christi dum cernis semper honoraNon tamen effigiem sed quem designat honora.Aspice, mortalis, pro te datur hostia talis.Above this, on a stone cross, was an image of Christ made of gilded tin.(Magnus, Geschichte von Sorau , p. 115)Here, in Protestant reinterpretation, the knight is transformed into theSavior himself, who "treads upon the serpent's head."