There was once a good for nothing man, who had a shrewish wife. Thiswife would give him no rest. She importuned him, saying, "You must goaway, travel forth and seek for something. You see how poor we are."At last the husband could no longer bear her reproaches, so he aroseand went.He went forth. He himself knew not whither he was going. He traveledon, and when he had ascended the ninth mountain from where he started, hesaw a large house, and in this house devis dwelt. He came near andsaw in the middle of the room a fire, round which the devis weresitting, warming their hands. He went in and spoke in a friendly manner tothem, and sat down by the fire. The devis treated him well, for hehad spoken them fair. He stayed with them by day and by night. He ate withthem. He drank with them. He slept with the. He was like their youngestbrother.These devis possessed a wishing stone. When they were assembledtogether, they took out the stone. If they wished for dinner, dinnerappeared. If they wanted supper, they wished for supper, and lo! what theywished for heartily appeared before their eyes. They lived thus withoutcare. They had no kind of sorrow, and this was just what ourgood for nothing liked. He approved of this life and wanted to steal thewishing stone.Once when the devis were in a deep sleep, the good for nothingsilently stole out of the bedroom, took the wishing stone, and came to thedoor. He wished the door to open, and sure enough it began to creak. Itcreaked and called out, "The guest has stolen the wishing stone."The good for nothing turned back, put the stone in its place, went intothe bedroom, and pretended to be asleep. The creaking of the door awokethe devis . They jumped up and looked. They found the wishing stonein its place and the good for nothing in a sweet slumber. They rejoiced,closed the door, and went to sleep again. When they had fallen into aprofound sleep, the good for nothing rose up, took the stone, came to thedoor, and, when he wished it to open, it began to creak out, "The guesthas stolen the wishing stone."The good for nothing turned back, again put the wishing stone in itsplace, went into the bedroom, and began to snore as if he were asleep. Thedevis awoke and looked, but the stone was in its place, and thegood for nothing did this trick over and over again. The devis wereangry and furiously jumped up, pulled down the door, and put it in thefire. When the door was burned, and the devis slept again, thegood for nothing rose up, put the wishing stone in his pocket, and leftthe house.The next morning, when the devis awoke, they saw that neitherthe good for nothing nor the wishing stone was there any longer. Theylooked everywhere, but could not tell whether heaven or earth hadswallowed them, so they learned nothing.The good for nothing went on his way joyfully. He no longer had anycare or thought. He rejoiced that now he could live without trouble. Hewent on, and met on the road a man with a big stick. This man said,"Brother, give me something to eat."The good for nothing put his hand in his pocket, and took out thewishing stone. He wished, and there appeared before them everything readyfor eating. When they had finished their meal, the man with the sticksaid, "Come, I will exchange my stick with you for this stone.""What is the use of your stick?" inquired the good for nothing."If anyone stretches out his hand and calls, "Out, stick!" the stickwill fall upon the person in front of its master."The good for nothing made the exchange and went away a short distance.Then he said, "Out, stick!" and stretched it out towards its formermaster. It struck him until all his bones were made soft. When he had beenwell beaten, the good for nothing came, took his stone, and went on hisway with the stick.He went on and saw a man with a sword, who said, "Brother, give mesomething to eat."The good for nothing took out his wishing stone, and immediately meatand drink appeared before them. When he had eaten sufficiently, the mansaid, "Come, I will give you this sword in exchange for the stone.""What is the use of your sword?" inquired the good for nothing.""Whoever possesses it can, if he choose, cut off a hundred thousandheads."He exchanged his wishing stone for the sword, and went away. Afterwaiting a short time, he said, "Out, stick!" and pointed to the formerowner of the sword. The stick approached and beat the man mercilessly.Then the good for nothing took the wishing stone and went away.He went on again until he met a man with a piece of felt, who said,"Brother, give me something to eat."The good for nothing took out his wishing stone, wished, andimmediately a delicious repast appeared. When he had eaten all he wanted,the man said, "Come, I will give you my felt in exchange for thisstone.""What is the use of your felt?" inquired the good for nothing."If a man's head is cut off, one only has to take a piece of this feltand apply it. His head will stick on again, and he will live."The good for nothing gave him the stone, took the felt, and went away.When he had gone a little way, he said, "Out, stick!" and the stick beatthe man till he was like a wrinkled quince. The good for nothing took hisstone and traveled on.At last he came to his home. He placed the stick behind the door,greeted his wife and spoke thus, "Wife, see what I have brought," andshowed her the sword, felt, and wishing stone. His wife looked on him withcontempt, opened her mouth, and cast all the dirt in the world on hishead.The good for nothing bore it till he could bear it no longer, so hecalled, "Out, stick!"The stick beat her woefully. Then he made his little children sit down,took out his wishing stone, wished the table to be laid, and the rarestdelicacies were placed on the cloth. They enjoyed their dinner, while thebeaten wife silently looked down and sulked. She bore it for a time, butat last she could bear it no longer and came and embraced her husband'sknees. Her husband forgave her, and they caressed one anotherlovingly.After some time, this wishing stone made him quite rich, so that alltheir dishes were made of gold. Once the wife said to her husband, "Youmust invite the king and give him a great banquet."Her husband said, "Do you not know, the king is an envious man. When hesees these things, he will take them from us and put us in prison."His wife pleaded and whined until her husband consented.They invited the king and made ready a magnificent banquet. When thefeast was finished, the king demanded the wishing stone. Thegood for nothing said he could not spare it. The king was enraged and senthis whole army to take it away by force."This will not do at all," said the good for nothing to himself. "Sincethey are going to try and force me, I shall show my strength."While he spoke, he pointed the sword at the army, and the stick at theking. The heads of all the army were cut off, and the stick beat theenvious king.The king begged and prayed for mercy, "Only bring my soldiers back tolife again, and I swear I will leave you in peace."Then the good for nothing arose, took the felt and laid a piece on theneck of each soldier, and the army was restored to life. The king nolonger dared to show his enmity, the good for nothing's wife obeyed him ineverything, and they lived happily ever afterwards.