ONCE upon a time there lived a man whose one wish and prayer was to getrich. Day and night he thought of nothing else, and at last his prayerswere granted, and he became very wealthy. Now being so rich, and havingso much to lose, he felt that it would be a terrible thing to die andleave all his possessions behind. so he made up his mind to set out insearch of a land where there was no death. He got ready for his journey,took leave of his wife, and started. Whenever he came to a new countrythe first question that he asked was whether people died in that land,and when he heard that they did, he set out again on his quest. At lasthe reached a country where he was told that the people did not even knowthe meaning of the word death. Our traveller was delighted when he heardthis, and said:'But surely there are great numbers of people in your land, if no oneever dies?''No,' they replied, 'there are not great numbers, for you see from timeto time a voice is heard calling first one and then another, and whoeverhears that voice gets up and goes away, and never comes back.''And do they see the person who calls them,' he asked, 'or do they onlyhear his voice?''They both see and hear him,' was the answer.Well, the man was amazed when he heard that the people were stupidenough to follow the voice, though they knew that if they went when itcalled them they would never return. And he went back to his own homeand got all his possessions together, and, taking his wife and family,he set out resolved to go and live in that country where the people didnot die, but where instead they heard a voice calling them, which theyfollowed into a land from which they never returned. For he had madeup his own mind that when he or any of his family heard that voice theywould pay no heed to it, however loudly it called.After he had settled down in his new home, and had got everything inorder about him, he warned his wife and family that, unless they wantedto die, they must on no account listen to a voice which they might someday hear calling them.For some years everything went well with them, and they lived happily intheir new home. But one day, while they were all sitting together roundthe table, his wife suddenly started up, exclaiming in a loud voice:'I am coming! I am coming!'And she began to look round the room for her fur coat, but her husbandjumped up, and taking firm hold of her by the hand, held her fast, andreproached her, saying:'Don't you remember what I told you? Stay where you are unless you wishto die.''But don't you hear that voice calling me?' she answered. 'I am merelygoing to see why I am wanted. I shall come back directly.'So she fought and struggled to get away from her husband, and to gowhere the voice summoned. But he would not let her go, and had all thedoors of the house shut and bolted. When she saw that he had done this,she said:'Very well, dear husband, I shall do what you wish, and remain where Iam.'So her husband believed that it was all right, and that she had thoughtbetter of it, and had got over her mad impulse to obey the voice. But afew minutes later she made a sudden dash for one of the doors, opened itand darted out, followed by her husband. He caught her by the furcoat, and begged and implored her not to go, for if she did shewould certainly never return. She said nothing, but let her arms fallbackwards, and suddenly bending herself forward, she slipped out of thecoat, leaving it in her husband's hands. He, poor man, seemed turned tostone as he gazed after her hurrying away from him, and calling at thetop of her voice, as she ran:'I am coming! I am coming!'When she was quite out of sight her husband recovered his wits and wentback into his house, murmuring:'If she is so foolish as to wish to die, I can't help it. I warnedand implored her to pay no heed to that voice, however loudly it mightcall.'Well, days and weeks and months and years passed, and nothing happenedto disturb the peace of the household. But one day the man was at thebarber's as usual, being shaved. The shop was full of people, andhis chin had just been covered with a lather of soap, when, suddenlystarting up from the chair, he called out in a loud voice:'I won't come, do you hear? I won't come!'The barber and the other people in the shop listened to him withamazement. But again looking towards the door, he exclaimed:'I tell you, once and for all, I do not mean to come, so go away.'And a few minutes later he called out again:'Go away, I tell you, or it will be the worse for you. You may call asmuch as you like but you will never get me to come.'And he got so angry that you might have thought that some one wasactually standing at the door, tormenting him. At last he jumped up, andcaught the razor out of the barber's hand, exclaiming:'Give me that razor, and I'll teach him to let people alone for thefuture.'And he rushed out of the house as if he were running after some one,whom no one else saw. The barber, determined not to lose his razor,pursued the man, and they both continued running at full speed till theyhad got well out of the town, when all of a sudden the man fell headforemost down a precipice, and never was seen again. So he too, like theothers, had been forced against his will to follow the voice that calledhim.The barber, who went home whistling and congratulating himself on theescape he had made, described what had happened, and it was noisedabroad in the country that the people who had gone away, and had neverreturned, had all fallen into that pit. for till then they had neverknown what had happened to those who had heard the voice and obeyed itscall.But when crowds of people went out from the town to examine theill fated pit that had swallowed up such numbers, and yet never seemedto be full, they could discover nothing. All that they could see was avast plain, that looked as if it had been there since the beginning ofthe world. And from that time the people of the country began to dielike ordinary mortals all the world over.(13)(13) Roumanian Tales from the German of Mite Thremnitz.