Tiring Tirang was a barrio in the town of Tang Tang, situated at the foot of a hill which was called "La Campana" because of its shape. Around the hill, about a mile from the barrio, flowed the Malogo River, in which the people of the town used to bathe. It so happened that one time an epidemic broke out in the community, killing off all the inhabitants except one couple. This couple had an only son named Juan Pusong Tambi Tambi.When Juan had reached his twelfth year, his father died. consequently the boy had to go to work to earn money for the support of himself and his mother. At first Juan followed the occupation of his father, that of fisherman. but, seeing that he made little money from this, he decided to become a farmer. His mother had now reached the age of seventy(!), and was often sick. Juan frequently had to neglect his farm in order to take care of her.One day Juan went to Pit Pit to buy medicine for his mother. On his way to the town he saw a flock of crows eating up his corn. He paid no attention to the birds. but on his way back, when he saw these same birds still eating his corn, he became angry. He picked up a stone about the size of his fist, and crept into a bush near by. He had hardly hidden himself when the birds heard a rustling, and began to fly off. Juan jumped up, and hurled his stone with such accuracy and force that one of the crows fell dead to the ground.He tied the dead crow to a bamboo pole, and planted it in the middle of his corn field. No sooner was he out of sight than the crows flew back to the field again. but when they saw their dead companion, they flew off, and never troubled Juan again.For six months Juan had no trouble from birds. He did not know, however, that not far from his field there was a monkey ( chongo ) living in a large tree. This monkey used to come to his field every day and steal two or three ears of corn.One day, as Juan was walking across his field, he saw many dead cornstalks. He said to himself, "I wonder who it is that comes here and steals my corn! I am no longer troubled by birds. and yet I find here many husks."He went home and made an image of a crooked old man like himself. This he covered with sticky wax. He placed it in the middle of the field. The next morning, when the sun was shining very brightly, the monkey felt hungry, so he ran towards the field to steal some corn to eat. There he saw the statue.Thinking that it was Juan, he decided to ask permission before he took any corn. "Good morning, Juan!" said the monkey in a courteous tone. but the image made no reply. "You are too proud to bend your neck, Juan," continued the monkey. "I have only come to ask you for three or four ears of corn. I have not eaten since yesterday, you know. and if you deny me this request, I shall die before morning."The waxen statue still stood motionless."Do you hear me, Juan?" said the monkey impatiently.Still the statue made no reply."Since you are too proud to answer me, I will soon give you some presents. Look out!" he cried, and with his right paw he slapped the statue which he thought was Juan. but his paw stuck to the wax, and he could not get free."Let my hand loose!" the monkey shouted, "or you will get another present."Then he slapped the statue with his left paw, and, as before, stuck fast."You are foolish, Juan. If you do not let me go this very moment, I'll kick you."He did so, first with one foot, and then with the other. At last he could no longer move, and he began to curse the statue.Juan, who had been hiding in a bush near by, now presented himself, and said to the monkey, "Now I have caught you, you thief!"He would have killed the monkey at once, had not the monkey begged for mercy, and promised that he would at some future time repay him for his kindness if he would only spare his life. So Juan set the monkey free.