One cold winter's day a peasant set out on ajourney which led him through the depths of aforest into which he had not hitherto been.The result was that he lost his way, and afterwandering about for many hours in the hope offinding it again, he found himself, just as duskwas coming on, in a little clearing where he was overjoyed tosee a small house with a cheerful light in the window."Here is a chance of supper and a bed," thought the peasant, andhe made haste to go up to the cottage door.Now this house in the clearing was not inhabited by men,but by some strange forest folk who were called satyrs. Ifyou want to know what they were like, you must look at thepictures. Certainly the peasant had never seen anythinglike them before, although he had often heard of them, andwhen he nearly tumbled over the little satyr children who wereplaying in the snow outside the house door, he was the mostsurprised man in all those parts. It was too late to drawback however, so he went boldly up to the door and gave aloud knock."Come in!" cried a gruff voice, and the peasant accordinglywent in and found himself facing the father of all thesatyrs, who had a long beard and a pair of horns jutting fromhis forehead. The poor fellow's knees trembled underneathhim for fright, especially when he saw all the other satyrs,the mother and the uncles and the aunts, glowering at him."Please forgive me for my intrusion," said he, "but Ihave lost my way in the woods, and I am half dead withhunger and cold. It would be an act of great kindness ifyou would give me some food and allow me to take shelterfor the night." So saying, to give point to his remarks, heset to work to blow upon his chilled fingers, which indeedwere blue with the cold."Why are you blowing your fingers?" asked the fatherof all the satyrs curiously."Why, to warm them," answered the peasant, and heblew harder than before."Well, sit down," said the satyr. "As it happens weare just about to have supper, and you are welcome to shareit with us."So the peasant sat down to supper, and all the satyrfamily sat down too, and watched him with big unblinkingeyes, so that he felt very uncomfortable. A big basin of soupwas set before him, and finding it very hot, he began to blowupon it.At this all the satyr family cried out in surprise, and thefather satyr said, " Why are you blowing your soup?""To cool it," answered the peasant. "It is too hot, andI am afraid it may scald my mouth."Another and a louder cry of surprise came from all thesatyrs, but the father cried out loudest of all, and seemedvery indignant. "Come," he said, advancing to the peasantand taking him by the collar. "Out you go! There is noplace in my house for a man who can blow hot and coldwith the same breath. That smells too much of sorcery ormagic. Out you go, I say, and practise your spells in theforest."So the poor peasant had to go supperless and spend thenight in the woods, with no shelter but the trees, and thesnow for coverlet.And, if you wish to know when all this happened, all Ican tell you is that it was a very long time ago, in the dayswhen fishes flew, and cats had wings.