Another singular story is told on Dartmoor:There was once a fox, who, prowling by night in search of prey, cameunexpectedly on a colony of pixies. Each pixy had a separate house. Thefirst he came to was a wooden house."Let me in, let me in," said the fox."I won't," was the pixy's answer. "and the door is fastened."Upon this the fox climbed to the top of the house. and having pawed itdown, made a meal of the unfortunate pixy.The next was a "stonen" house."Let me in," said the fox."The door is fastened," answered the pixy.Again was the house pulled down, and its inmate eaten.The third was an iron house. The fox again craved admittance, and wasagain refused."But I bring you good news," said the fox."No, no," replied the pixy. "I know what you want. you shall not come inhere tonight."That house the fox in vain attempted to destroy. It was too strong forhim, and he went away in despair. But he returned the next night, andexerted all his fox like qualities in the hope of deceiving the pixy. Forsome time he tried in vain . until at last he mentioned a tempting fieldof turnips in the neighborhood, to which he offered to conduct hisintended victim. They agreed to meet the next morning at four o'clock.But the pixy outwitted the fox. for he found his way to the field, andreturned laden with his turnips long before the fox was astir. The fox wasgreatly vexed, and was long unable to devise another scheme, until hebethought himself of a great fair about to be held a short way off, andproposed to the pixy that they should set off for it at three in themorning.The pixy agreed. But the fox was again outwitted. for he was only up intime to meet the pixy returning home with his fairings: a clock, a crock,and a frying pan. The pixy, who saw the fox coming, got into the crock androlled himself down the hill . and the fox, unable to find him, abandonedthe scent and went his way. The fox returned the next morning. and findingthe door open went in, when he caught the pixy in bed, put him into a box,and locked him in."Let me out," said the pixy, " and I will tell you a wonderful secret."The fox was after a time persuaded to lift the cover. and the pixy, comingout, threw such a charm upon him that he was compelled to enter the box inhis turn. and there at last he died.