There was once a wily old crocodile who dwelt in a tank (pond) hard bya village, and he was sometimes so ferocious that he would seize childrenwho used to go for water there, then drown and eat them. He had become, infact, the terror of the place.One year there was a very great drought, and the tank by degrees beganto dry up, and at last it got quite dry, and the crocodile was to be seengrilling and roasting in the sun.He used to call out to the passers by, "Oh! pray take pity upon me andshow me where I can go for water, for I am dying in this heat.""No, indeed! they all said. "We are glad to see you suffering, for haveyou not often made us suffer by taking our goats, and sometimes even ourchildren? We shall not help you in any way."At last an old man passed by, and the crocodile appealed to him, and atfirst he replied as the others did, but afterwards he relented and said,"Well, if you will follow me I will take you to a tank which is neverdry." So the crocodile followed him, and he showed him a tank no greatdistance off, which was filled with water.The old man went first into the tank himself, and calling to thecrocodile, he said, "See here, how deep it is!"No sooner had the crocodile had a good drink, than he made a grab atthe old man's leg. "Ah ho! Ah ho!" said the old man. "What are youdoing?""Well," replied the crocodile, "I have had a good drink, thanks to you,and as I have had no food for many days, I am going to make a meal of you.That is what I am going to do.""You wretched and ungrateful brute!" said the old man. "Is this the wayyou reward me?"At that moment a jackal hove in sight, coming for a drink (the jackals,we know, are the most cunning of all animals), and the old man said, "Iwill put my case before him, and if he says you are to eat me, very good,so you shall."The old man then beckoned to the jackal to come close up to the tank,and told him all the facts of the case.The jackal said, "You know I am always a just judge, and if you want meto decide, you must show me the place from whence you brought thecrocodile."So they all three wended their way back to the tank near the village,and the jackal said, "Show me the exact spot where you first found thecrocodile," and when they got there the jackal said, "Now I am going togive you my judgment, so prepare to listen." Then turning to the old man,he said quietly, "You silly old idiot! What made you ever help acrocodile? Now, you run one way, and I will run the other."The jackal gave a skip, and was soon off out of sight, and the old mantook to his heels also, and soon got away. The wily old crocodile, nowbalked of his prey, said to himself, "I know my way back to that watertank, and I will someday have my revenge on that jackal, for he is sure tocome there to lap water."So back he went, and as there were many trees near the tank, some ofwhose roots went beneath the water, the crocodile lay in ambush there. Byand by the jackal came to drink water, and the crocodile made a suddensnap at his leg, and held it."Oh, you foolish crocodile!" the jackal said, "you think you have gothold of my leg, do you? But it is only the root of a tree."Hearing this, the crocodile released his hold, and the jackal jumpedoff in high glee out of his reach.The crocodile then determined that he would try some other plan ofentrapping him. So, as there were great numbers of a small fruit fallingfrom one of the trees, which he knew the jackal came to eat, he one nightpiled up a heap and hid himself beneath it, leaving only his eyesuncovered.Presently the jackal came prowling along, and noticing the pile offruit he felt inclined to partake of some, but he drew near verycautiously, and in a moment he caught sight of the two eyes of thecrocodile glistening in the moonlight, when he called out, "Oh, I seeyou!" and scampered off.After this, the crocodile saw that it was no use to try himself tocatch the jackal, "for," said he, "he is too cunning for me. I must employsomeone who comes to get water here."So one day he saw a farmer, and said to him, "If you will catch ajackal for me, I will make you a rich man, for I will give you severaljewels which people have dropped in this tank for years and years, andthey are lying here at the bottom.""Oh!" replied the farmer, "that is easily done." So that very night hewent into the jungle and lay down as if dead.Presently the jackal made his appearance, and smelling along he cameclose up to the body. Then he hesitated and said, "I wonder if this isreally a dead body or not." He then called out audibly, "If it is reallydead it will shake its leg, and if it is alive it won't do so." This hesaid so quickly and so artfully that the farmer was taken aback, and tomake him believe he was dead he at once stupidly shook his leg, andoff skipped the jackal, saying, "I caught you there," and was lost to viewin an instant.The farmer, who was very avaricious, and wanted the jewels badly, madeup his mind that he would by hook or by crook make sure of the jackal onthe next occasion. So this time he prepared of the softest wax a doll thesize of a child, and digging a small grave and covering it over withleaves and mud, he waited in hiding to see the result.Shortly after sunset the jackal began to prowl about as usual, andcoming on the new grave he said to himself, "Ah! This is someone latelyburied. I will try my luck here." He then began to scratch with his paw,and presently one paw got caught in the wax, and in trying to get thataway, all four became stuck with the wax, when in a moment out came thefarmer from his hiding place and said, "Ah! At last I have got you, andyou are my prisoner!"The jackal yelled and howled, and endeavored to escape, but washindered by the wax on his feet. So then he took to frightening thefarmer, and said, "If you do not get me out of this scrape I will call allthe jackals in a moment of time, and they will destroy you forever, for doyou not know that I am the king of the jackals?""What am I to do?" asked the farmer."Go!" he said. "Go and get some oil, and rub it all over me. Then get afowl, and tie it about fifty yards away, and bring two men with hatchetsto stand over me, so that if I attempt to get away they may chop me topieces!"This being done by the farmer, the jackal while being held in his handssought his opportunity, and being well greased all over, he made a violentspring and so got clear of the farmer. Then he dashed between the legs ofthe men with hatchets, when they made a plunge at him, but they onlysucceeded in hurting their own legs. So the jackal got finally off, andpicking up the fowl, he was soon lost to view, and so won the day.