Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who loved each otherdearly, and would have been perfectly happy if they had only had alittle son or daughter to play with. They never talked about it, andalways pretended that there was nothing in the world to wish for. but,sometimes when they looked at other people's children, their faces grewsad, and their courtiers and attendants knew the reason why.One day the queen was sitting alone by the side of a waterfall whichsprung from some rocks in the large park adjoining the castle. She wasfeeling more than usually miserable, and had sent away her ladies sothat no one might witness her grief. Suddenly she heard a rustlingmovement in the pool below the waterfall, and, on glancing up, she sawa large crab climbing on to a stone beside her.'Great queen,' said the crab, 'I am here to tell you that the desire ofyour heart will soon be granted. But first you must permit me to leadyou to the palace of the fairies, which, though hard by, has never beenseen by mortal eyes because of the thick clouds that surround it. Whenthere you will know more. that is, if you will trust yourself to me.'The queen had never before heard an animal speak, and was struck dumbwith surprise. However, she was so enchanted at the words of the crabthat she smiled sweetly and held out her hand. it was taken, not by thecrab, which had stood there only a moment before, but by a little oldwoman smartly dressed in white and crimson with green ribbons in hergrey hair. And, wonderful to say, not a drop of water fell from herclothes.The old woman ran lightly down a path along which the queen had been ahundred times before, but it seemed so different she could hardlybelieve it was the same. Instead of having to push her way throughnettles and brambles, roses and jasmine hung about her head, whileunder her feet the ground was sweet with violets. The orange treeswere so tall and thick that, even at mid day, the sun was never toohot, and at the end of the path was a glimmer of something so dazzlingthat the queen had to shade her eyes, and peep at it only between herfingers.'What can it be?' she asked, turning to her guide. who answered:'Oh, that is the fairies' palace, and here are some of them coming tomeet us.'As she spoke the gates swung back and six fairies approached, eachbearing in her hand a flower made of precious stones, but so like areal one that it was only by touching you could tell the difference.'Madam,' they said, 'we know not how to thank you for this mark of yourconfidence, but have the happiness to tell you that in a short time youwill have a little daughter.'The queen was so enchanted at this news that she nearly fainted withjoy. but when she was able to speak, she poured out all her gratitudeto the fairies for their promised gift.'And now,' she said, 'I ought not to stay any longer, for my husbandwill think that I have run away, or that some evil beast has devouredme.'In a little while it happened just as the fairies had foretold, and ababy girl was born in the palace. Of course both the king and queenwere delighted, and the child was called Desiree, which means'desired,' for she had been 'desired' for five years before her birth.At first the queen could think of nothing but her new plaything, butthen she remembered the fairies who had sent it to her. Bidding herladies bring her the posy of jewelled flowers which had been given herat the palace, she took each flower in her hand and called it by name,and, in turn, each fairy appeared before her. But, as unluckily oftenhappens, the one to whom she owed the most, the crab fairy, wasforgotten, and by this, as in the case of other babies you have readabout, much mischief was wrought.However, for the moment all was gaiety in the palace, and everybodyinside ran to the windows to watch the fairies' carriages, for no twowere alike. One had a car of ebony, drawn by white pigeons, anotherwas lying back in her ivory chariot, driving ten black crows, while therest had chosen rare woods or many coloured sea shells, with scarletand blue macaws, long tailed peacocks, or green love birds for horses.These carriages were only used on occasions of state, for when theywent to war flying dragons, fiery serpents, lions or leopards, took theplace of the beautiful birds.The fairies entered the queen's chamber followed by little dwarfs whocarried their presents and looked much prouder than their mistresses.One by one their burdens were spread upon the ground, and no one hadever seen such lovely things. Everything that a baby could possiblywear or play with was there, and besides, they had other and moreprecious gifts to give her, which only children who have fairies forgodmothers can ever hope to possess.They were all gathered round the heap of pink cushions on which thebaby lay asleep, when a shadow seemed to fall between them and the sun,while a cold wind blew through the room. Everybody looked up, andthere was the crab  fairy, who had grown as tall as the ceiling in heranger.'So I am forgotten!' cried she, in a voice so loud that the queentrembled as she heard it. 'Who was it soothed you in your trouble?Who was it led you to the fairies? Who was it brought you back insafety to your home again? Yet I I am overlooked, while these whohave done nothing in comparison, are petted and thanked.'The queen, almost dumb with terror, in vain tried to think of someexplanation or apology. but there was none, and she could only confessher fault and implore forgiveness. The fairies also did their best tosoften the wrath of their sister, and knowing that, like many plainpeople who are not fairies, she was very vain, they entreated her todrop her crab's disguise, and to become once more the charming personthey were accustomed to see.For some time the enraged fairy would listen to nothing. but at lengththe flatteries began to take effect. The crab's shell fell from her,she shrank into her usual size, and lost some of her fierce expression.'Well,' she said, 'I will not cause the princess's death, as I hadmeant to do, but at the same time she will have to bear the punishmentof her mother's fault, as many other children have done before her.The sentence I pass upon her is, that if she is allowed to see one rayof daylight before her fifteenth birthday she will rue it bitterly, andit may perhaps cost her her life.' And with these words she vanishedby the window through which she came, while the fairies comforted theweeping queen and took counsel how best the princess might be kept safeduring her childhood.At the end of half an hour they had made up their minds what to do, andat the command of the fairies, a beautiful palace sprang up, close tothat of the king and queen, but different from every palace in theworld in having no windows, and only a door right under the earth.However, once within, daylight was hardly missed, so brilliant were themultitudes of tapers that were burning on the walls.Now up to this time the princess's history has been like the history ofmany a princess that you have read about. but, when the period of herimprisonment was nearly over, her fortunes took another turn. Foralmost fifteen years the fairies had taken care of her, and amused herand taught her, so that when she came into the world she might be nowhit behind the daughters of other kings in all that makes a princesscharming and accomplished. They all loved her dearly, but the fairyTulip loved her most of all. and as the princess's fifteenth birthdaydrew near, the fairy began to tremble lest something terrible shouldhappen some accident which had not been foreseen. 'Do not let her outof your sight,' said Tulip to the queen, 'and meanwhile, let herportrait be painted and carried to the neighbouring Courts, as is thecustom in order that the kings may see how far her beauty exceeds thatof every other princess, and that they may demand her in marriage fortheir sons.'And so it was done. and as the fairy had prophesied, all the youngprinces fell in love with the picture. but the last one to whom it wasshown could think of nothing else, and refused to let it be removedfrom his chamber, where he spent whole days gazing at it.The king his father was much surprised at the change which had comeover his son, who generally passed all his time in hunting or hawking,and his anxiety was increased by a conversation he overheard betweentwo of his courtiers that they feared the prince must be going out ofhis mind, so moody had he become. Without losing a moment the kingwent to visit his son, and no sooner had he entered the room than theyoung man flung himself at his father's feet.'You have betrothed me already to a bride I can never love!' cried he.'but if you will not consent to break off the match, and ask for thehand of the princess Desiree, I shall die of misery, thankful to bealive no longer.'These words much displeased the king, who felt that, in breaking offthe marriage already arranged he would almost certainly be bringing onhis subjects a long and bloody war. so, without answering, he turnedaway, hoping that a few days might bring his son to reason. But theprince's condition grew rapidly so much worse that the king, indespair, promised to send an embassy at once to Desiree's father.This news cured the young man in an instant of all his ills. and hebegan to plan out every detail of dress and of horses and carriageswhich were necessary to make the train of the envoy, whose name wasBecasigue, as splendid as possible. He longed to form part of theembassy himself, if only in the disguise of a page. but this the kingwould not allow, and so the prince had to content himself withsearching the kingdom for everything that was rare and beautiful tosend to the princess. Indeed, he arrived, just as the embassy wasstarting, with his portrait, which had been painted in secret by thecourt painter.The king and queen wished for nothing better than that their daughtermarry into such a great and powerful family, and received theambassador with every sign of welcome. They even wished him to see theprincess Desiree, but this was prevented by the fairy Tulip, who fearedsome ill might come of it.'And be sure you tell him,' added she, 'that the marriage cannot becelebrated till she is fifteen years old, or else some terriblemisfortune will happen to the child.'So when Becasigue, surround by his train, made a formal request thatthe princess Desiree might be given in marriage to his master's son,the king replied that he was much honoured, and would gladly give hisconsent. but that no one could even see the princess till her fifteenthbirthday, as the spell laid upon her in her cradle by a spiteful fairy,would not cease to work till that was past. The ambassador was greatlysurprised and disappointed, but he knew too much about fairies toventure to disobey them, therefore he had to content himself withpresenting the prince's portrait to the queen, who lost no time incarrying it to the princess. As the girl took it in her hands itsuddenly spoke, as it had been taught to do, and uttered a complimentof the most delicate and charming sort, which made the princess flushwith pleasure.'How would you like to have a husband like that?' asked the queen,laughing.'As if I knew anything about husbands!' replied Desiree, who had longago guessed the business of the ambassador.'Well, he will be your husband in three months,' answered the queen,ordering the prince's presents to be brought in. The princess was verypleased with them, and admired them greatly, but the queen noticed thatall the while her eyes constantly strayed from the softest silks andmost brilliant jewels to the portrait of the prince.The ambassador, finding that there was no hope of his being allowed tosee the princess, took his leave, and returned to his own court. buthere a new difficulty appeared. The prince, though transported withjoy at the thought that Desiree was indeed to be his bride, wasbitterly disappointed that she had not been allowed to return withBecasigue, as he had foolishly expected. and never having been taughtto deny himself anything or to control his feelings, he fell as ill ashe had done before. He would eat nothing nor take pleasure inanything, but lay all day on a heap of cushions, gazing at the pictureof the princess.'If I have to wait three months before I can marry the princess I shalldie!' was all this spoilt boy would say. and at length the king, indespair, resolved to send a fresh embassy to Desiree's father toimplore him to permit the marriage to be celebrated at once. 'I wouldhave presented my prayer in person, he added in his letter, 'but mygreat age and infirmities do not suffer me to travel. however my envoyhas orders to agree to any arrangement that you may propose.'On his arrival at the palace Becasigue pleaded his young master's causeas fervently as the king his father could have done, and entreated thatthe princess might be consulted in the matter. The queen hastened tothe marble tower, and told her daughter of the sad state of the prince.Desiree sank down fainting at the news, but soon came to herselfagain, and set about inventing a plan which would enable her to go tothe prince without risking the doom pronounced over her by the wickedfairy.'I see!' she exclaimed joyfully at last. 'Let a carriage be builtthrough which no light can come, and let it be brought into my room. Iwill then get into it, and we can travel swiftly during the night andarrive before dawn at the palace of the prince. Once there, I canremain in some underground chamber, where no light can come.''Ah, how clever you are,' cried the queen, clasping her in her arms.And she hurried away to tell the king.'What a wife our prince will have!' said Becasigue bowing low. 'but Imust hasten back with the tidings, and to prepare the undergroundchamber for the princess.' And so he took his leave.In a few days the carriage commanded by the princess was ready. It wasof green velvet, scattered over with large golden thistles, and linedinside with silver brocade embroidered with pink roses. It had nowindows, of course. but the fairy Tulip, whose counsel had been asked,had managed to light it up with a soft glow that came no one knewwhither.It was carried straight up into the great hall of the tower, and theprincess stepped into it, followed by her faithful maid of honour,Eglantine, and by her lady in waiting Cerisette, who also had fallen inlove with the prince's portrait and was bitterly jealous of hermistress. The fourth place in the carriage was filled by Cerisette'smother, who had been sent by the queen to look after the three youngpeople.Now the Fairy of the Fountain was the godmother of the princess Nera,to whom the prince had been betrothed before the picture of Desiree hadmade him faithless. She was very angry at the slight put upon hergodchild, and from that moment kept careful watch on the princess. Inthis journey she saw her chance, and it was she who, invisible, sat byCerisette, and put bad thoughts into the minds of both her and hermother.The way to the city where the prince lived ran for the most partthrough a thick forest, and every night when there was no moon, and nota single star could be seen through the trees, the guards who travelledwith the princess opened the carriage to give it an airing. This wenton for several days, till only twelve hours journey lay between themand the palace. The Cerisette persuaded her mother to cut a great holein the side of the carriage with a sharp knife which she herself hadbrought for the purpose. In the forest the darkness was so intensethat no one perceived what she had done, but when they left the lasttrees behind them, and emerged into the open country, the sun was up,and for the first time since her babyhood, Desiree found herself in thelight of day.She looked up in surprise at the dazzling brilliance that streamedthrough the hole. then gave a sigh which seemed to come from her heart.The carriage door swung back, as if by magic, and a white doe sprangout, and in a moment was lost to sight in the forest. But, quick asshe was, Eglantine, her maid of honour, had time to see where she went,and jumped from the carriage in pursuit of her, followed at a distanceby the guards.Cerisette and her mother looked at each other in surprise and joy.They could hardly believe in their good fortune, for everything hadhappened exactly as they wished. The first thing to be done was toconceal the hole which had been cut, and when this was managed (withthe help of the angry fairy, though they did not know it), Cerisettehastened to take off her own clothes, and put on those of the princess,placing the crown of diamonds on her head. She found this heavier thanshe expected. but then, she had never been accustomed to wear crowns,which makes all the difference.At the gates of the city the carriage was stopped by a guard of honoursent by the king as an escort to his son's bride. Though Cerisette andher mother could of course see nothing of what was going on outside,they heard plainly the shouts of welcome from the crowds along thestreets.The carriage stopped at length in the vast hall which Becasigue hadprepared for the reception of the princess. The grand chamberlain andthe lord high steward were awaiting her, and when the false bridestepped into the brilliantly lighted room, they bowed low, and saidthey had orders to inform his highness the moment she arrived. Theprince, whom the strict etiquette of the court had prevented from beingpresent in the underground hall, was burning with impatience in his ownapartments.'So she had come!' cried he, throwing down the bow he had beenpretending to mend. 'Well, was I not right? Is she not a miracle ofbeauty and grace? And has she her equal in the whole world?' Theministers looked at each other, and made no reply. till at length thechamberlain, who was the bolder of the two, observed:'My lord, as to her beauty, you can judge of that for yourself. Nodoubt it is as great as you say. but at present it seems to havesuffered, as is natural, from the fatigues of the journey.'This was certainly not what the prince had expected to hear. Could theportrait have flattered her? He had known of such things before, and acold shiver ran through him. but with an effort he kept silent fromfurther questioning, and only said:'Has the king been told that the princess is in the palace?''Yes, highness. and he has probably already joined her.''Then I will go too,' said the prince.Weak as he was from his long illness, the prince descended thestaircase, supported by the ministers, and entered the room just intime to hear his father's loud cry of astonishment and disgust at thesight of Cerisette.'There was been treachery at work,' he exclaimed, while the princeleant, dumb with horror, against the doorpost. But the lady inwaiting, who had been prepared for something of the sort, advanced,holding in her hand the letters which the king and queen had entrustedto her.'This is the princess Desiree,' said she, pretending to have heardnothing, 'and I have the honour to present to you these letters from myliege lord and lady, together with the casket containing the princess'jewels.'The king did not move or answer her. so the prince, leaning on the armof Becasigue, approached a little closer to the false princess, hopingagainst hope that his eyes had deceived him. But the longer he lookedthe more he agreed with his father that there was treason somewhere,for in no single respect did the portrait resemble the woman beforehim. Cerisette was so tall that the dress of the princess did notreach her ankles, and so thin that her bones showed through the stuff.Besides that her nose was hooked, and her teeth black and ugly.In his turn, the prince stood rooted to the spot. At last he spoke,and his words were addressed to his father, and not to the bride whohad come so far to marry him.'We have been deceived,' he said, 'and it will cost me my life.' Andhe leaned so heavily on the envoy that Becasigue feared he was going tofaint, and hastily laid him on the floor. For some minutes no onecould attend to anybody but the prince. but as soon as he revived thelady in waiting made herself heard.'Oh, my lovely princess, why did we ever leave home?' cried she. 'Butthe king your father will avenge the insults that have been heaped onyou when we tell him how you have been treated.''I will tell him myself,' replied the king in wrath. 'he promised me awonder of beauty, he has sent me a skeleton! I am not surprised thathe has kept her for fifteen years hidden away from the eyes of theworld. Take them both away,' he continued, turning to his guards, 'andlodge them in the state prison. There is something more I have tolearn of this matter.'His orders were obeyed, and the prince, loudly bewailing his sad fate,was led back to bed, where for many days he lay in a high fever. Atlength he slowly began to gain strength, but his sorrow was still sogreat that he could not bear the sight of a strange face, and shudderedat the notion of taking his proper part in the court ceremonies.Unknown to the king, or to anybody but Becasigue, he planned that, assoon as he was able, he would make his escape and pass the rest of hislife alone in some solitary place. It was some weeks before he hadregained his health sufficiently to carry out his design. but finally,one beautiful starlight night, the two friends stole away, and when theking woke next morning he found a letter lying by his bed, saying thathis son had gone, he knew not whither. He wept bitter tears at thenews, for he loved the prince dearly. but he felt that perhaps theyoung man had done wisely, and he trusted to time and Becasigue'sinfluence to bring the wanderer home.And while these things were happening, what had become of the whitedoe? Though when she sprang from the carriage she was aware that someunkind fate had changed her into an animal, yet, till she saw herselfin a stream, she had no idea what it was.'Is it really, I, Desiree?' she said to herself, weeping. 'What wickedfairy can have treated me so. and shall I never, never take my ownshape again? My only comfort that, in this great forest, full of lionsand serpents, my life will be a short one.'Now the fairy Tulip was as much grieved at the sad fate of the princessas Desiree's own mother could have been if she had known of it. Still,she could not help feeling that if the king and queen had listened toher advice the girl would by this time be safely in the walls of hernew home. However, she loved Desiree too much to let her suffer morethan could be helped, and it was she who guided Eglantine to the placewhere the white doe was standing, cropping the grass which was herdinner.At the sound of footsteps the pretty creature lifted her head, and whenshe saw her faithful companion approaching she bounded towards her, andrubbed her head on Eglantine's shoulder. The maid of honour wassurprised. but she was fond of animals, and stroked the white doetenderly, speaking gently to her all the while. Suddenly the beautifulcreature lifted her head, and looked up into Eglantine's face, withtears streaming from her eyes. A thought flashed through her mind, andquick as lightning the girl flung herself on her knees, and lifting theanimal's feet kissed them one by one. 'My princess! O my dearprincess!' cried she. and again the white doe rubbed her head againsther, for thought the spiteful fairy had taken away her power of speech,she had not deprived her of her reason!All day long the two remained together, and when Eglantine grew hungryshe was led by the white doe to a part of the forest where pears andpeaches grew in abundance. but, as night came on, the maid of honourwas filled with the terrors of wild beasts which had beset the princessduring her first night in the forest.'Is there no hut or cave we could go into?' asked she. But the doeonly shook her head. and the two sat down and wept with fright.The fairy Tulip, who, in spite of her anger, was very soft hearted, wastouched at their distress, and flew quickly to their help.'I cannot take away the spell altogether,' she said, 'for the Fairy ofthe Fountain is stronger than I. but I can shorten the time of yourpunishment, and am able to make it less hard, for as soon as darknessfall you shall resume your own shape.'To think that by and by she would cease to be a white doe indeed, thatshe would at once cease to be one during the night was for the presentjoy enough for Desiree, and she skipped about on the grass in theprettiest manner.'Go straight down the path in front of you,' continued the fairy,smiling as she watched her. 'go straight down the path and you willsoon reach a little hut where you will find shelter.' And with thesewords she vanished, leaving her hearers happier than they ever thoughtthey could be again.An old woman was standing at the door of the hut when Eglantine drewnear, with the white doe trotting by her side.'Good evening!' she said. 'could you give me a night's lodging formyself and my doe?''Certainly I can,' replied the old woman. And she led them into a roomwith two little white beds, so clean and comfortable that it made yousleepy even to look at them.The door had hardly closed behind the old woman when the sun sank belowthe horizon, and Desiree became a girl again.'Oh, Eglantine! what should I have done if you had not followed me,'she cried. And she flung herself into her friend's arms in a transportof delight.Early in the morning Eglantine was awakened by the sound of someonescratching at the door, and on opening her eyes she saw the white doestruggling to get out. The little creature looked up and into herface, and nodded her head as the maid of honour unfastened the latch,but bounded away into the woods, and was lost to sight in a moment.Meanwhile, the prince and Becasigue were wandering through the wood,till at last the prince grew so tired, that he lay down under a tree,and told Becasigue that he had better go in search of food, and of someplace where they could sleep. Becasigue had not gone very far, when aturn of the path brought him face to face with the old woman who wasfeeding her doves before her cottage.'Could you give me some milk and fruit?' asked he. 'I am very hungrymyself, and, besides, I have left a friend behind me who is still weakfrom illness.''Certainly I can,' answered the old woman. 'But come and sit down inmy kitchen while I catch the goat and milk it.'Becasigue was glad enough to do as he was bid, and in a few minutes theold woman returned with a basket brimming over with oranges and grapes.'If your friend has been ill he should not pass the night in theforest,' said she. 'I have room in my hut tiny enough, it is true.but better than nothing, and to that you are both heartily welcome.'Becasigue thanked her warmly, and as by this time it was almost sunset,he set out to fetch the prince. It was while he was absent thatEglantine and the white doe entered the hut, and having, of course, noidea that in the very next room was the man whose childish impatiencehad been the cause of all their troubles.In spite of his fatigue, the prince slept badly, and directly it waslight he rose, and bidding Becasigue remain where he was, as he wishedto be alone, he strolled out into the forest. He walked on slowly,just as his fancy led him, till, suddenly, he came to a wide openspace, and in the middle was the white doe quietly eating herbreakfast. She bounded off at the sight of a man, but not before theprince, who had fastened on his bow without thinking, had let flyseveral arrows, which the fairy Tulip took care should do her no harm.But, quickly as she ran, she soon felt her strength failing her, forfifteen years of life in a tower had not taught her how to exercise herlimbs.Luckily, the prince was too weak to follow her far, and a turn of apath brought her close to the hut, where Eglantine was awaiting her.Panting for breath, she entered their room, and flung herself down onthe floor.When it was dark again, and she was once more the princess Desiree, shetold Eglantine what had befallen her.'I feared the Fairy of the Fountain, and the cruel beasts,' said she.'but somehow I never thought of the dangers that I ran from men. I donot know now what saved me.''You must stay quietly here till the time of your punishment is over,'answered Eglantine. But when the morning dawned, and the girl turnedinto a doe, the longing for the forest came over her, and she sprangaway as before.As soon as the prince was awake he hastened to the place where, onlythe day before, he had found the white doe feeding. but of course shehad taken care to go in the opposite direction. Much disappointed, hetried first one green path and then another, and at last, wearied withwalking, he threw himself down and went fast asleep.Just at this moment the white doe sprang out of a thicket near by, andstarted back trembling when she beheld her enemy lying there. Yet,instead of turning to fly, something bade her go and look at himunseen. As she gazed a thrill ran through her, for she felt that, wornand wasted though he was by illness, it was the face of her destinedhusband. Gently stooping over him she kissed his forehead, and at hertouch he awoke.For a minute they looked at each other, and to his amazement herecognized the white doe which had escaped him the previous day. Butin an instant the animal was aroused to a sense of her danger, and shefled with all her strength into the thickest part of the forest. Quickas lightning the prince was on her track, but this time it was with nowish to kill or even wound the beautiful creature.'Pretty doe! pretty doe! stop! I won't hurt you,' cried he, but hiswords were carried away by the wind.At length the doe could run no more, and when the prince reached her,she was lying stretched out on the grass, waiting for her death blow.But instead the prince knelt at her side, and stroked her, and bade herfear nothing, as he would take care of her. So he fetched a littlewater from the stream in his horn hunting cup, then, cutting somebranches from the trees, he twisted them into a litter which he coveredwith moss, and laid the white doe gently on it.For a long time they remained thus, but when Desiree saw by the waythat the light struck the trees, that he sun must be near its setting,she was filled with alarm lest the darkness should fall, and the princeshould behold her in her human shape.'No, he must not see me for the first time here,' she thought, andinstantly began to plan how to get rid of him. Then she opened hermouth and let her tongue hang out, as if she were dying of thirst, andthe prince, as she expected, hastened to the stream to get her somemore water.When he returned, the white doe was gone.That night Desiree confessed to Eglantine that her pursuer was no otherthan the prince, and that far from flattering him, the portrait hadnever done him justice.'Is it not hard to meet him in this shape,' wept she, 'when we bothlove each other so much?' But Eglantine comforted her, and reminded herthat in a short time all would be well.The prince was very angry at the flight of the white doe, for whom hehad taken so much trouble, and returning to the cottage he poured outhis adventures and his wrath to Becasigue, who could not help smiling.'She shall not escape me again,' cried the prince. 'If I hunt herevery day for a year, I will have her at last.' And in this frame ofmind he went to bed.When the white doe entered the forest next morning, she had not madeup her mind whether she would go and meet the prince, or whether shewould shun him, and hide in thickets of which he knew nothing. Shedecided that the last plan was the best. and so it would have been ifthe prince had not taken the very same direction in search of her.Quite by accident he caught sight of her white skin shining through thebushes, and at the same instant she heard a twig snap under his feet.In a moment she was up and away, but the prince, not knowing how elseto capture her, aimed an arrow at her leg, which brought her to theground.The young man felt like a murderer as he ran hastily up to where thewhite doe lay, and did his best to soothe the pain she felt, which, inreality, was the last part of the punishment sent by the Fairy of theFountain. First he brought her some water, and then he fetched somehealing herbs, and having crushed them in his hand, laid them on thewound.'Ah! what a wretch I was to have hurt you,' cried he, resting her headupon his knees. 'and now you will hate me and fly from me for ever!'For some time the doe lay quietly where she was, but, as before, sheremembered that the hour of her transformation was near. She struggledto her feet, but the prince would not hear of her walking, and thinkingthe old woman might be able to dress her wound better than he could, hetook her in his arms to carry her back to the hut. But, small as shewas, she made herself so heavy that, after staggering a few steps underher weight, he laid her down, and tied her fast to a tree with some ofthe ribbons of his hat. This done he went away to get help.Meanwhile Eglantine had grown very uneasy at the long absence of hermistress, and had come out to look for her. Just as the prince passedout of sight the fluttering ribbons dance before her eyes, and shedescried her beautiful princess bound to a tree. With all her mightshe worked at the knots, but not a single one could she undo, thoughall appeared so easy. She was still busy with them when a voice behindher said:'Pardon me, fair lady, but it is MY doe you are trying to steal!''Excuse me, good knight' answered Eglantine, hardly glancing at him,'but it is MY doe that is tied up here! And if you wish for a proof ofit, you can see if she knows me or not. Touch my heart, my littleone,' she continued, dropping on her knees. And the doe lifted up itsfore foot and laid it on her side. 'Now put your arms round my neck,and sigh.' And again the doe did as she was bid.'You are right,' said the prince. 'but it is with sorrow I give her upto you, for though I have wounded her yet I love her deeply.'To this Eglantine answered nothing. but carefully raising up the doe,she led her slowly to the hut.Now both the prince and Becasigue were quite unaware that the old womanhad any guests besides themselves, and, following afar, were muchsurprised to behold Eglantine and her charge enter the cottage. Theylost no time in questioning the old woman, who replied that she knewnothing about the lady and her white doe, who slept next the chamberoccupied by the prince and his friend, but that they were very quiet,and paid her well. Then she went back to her kitchen.'Do you know,' said Becasigue, when they were alone, 'I am certain thatthe lady we saw is the maid of honour to the Princess Desiree, whom Imet at the palace. And, as her room is next to this, it will be easyto make a small hole through which I can satisfy myself whether I amright or not.'So, taking a knife out of his pocket, he began to saw away thewoodwork. The girls heard the grating noise, but fancying it was amouse, paid no attention, and Becasigue was left in peace to pursue hiswork. At length the hole was large enough for him to peep through, andthe sight was one to strike him dumb with amazement. He had guessedtruly: the tall lady was Eglantine herself. but the other where had heseen her? Ah! now he knew it was the lady of the portrait!Desiree, in a flowing dress of green silk, was lying stretched out uponcushions, and as Eglantine bent over her to bathe the wounded leg, shebegan to talk:'Oh! let me die,' cried she, 'rather than go on leading this life. Youcannot tell the misery of being a beast all the day, and unable tospeak to the man I love, to whose impatience I owe my cruel fate. Yet,even so, I cannot bring myself to hate him.'These words, low though they were spoken, reached Becasigue, who couldhardly believe his ears. He stood silent for a moment. then, crossingto the window out of which the prince was gazing, he took his arm andled him across the room. A single glance was sufficient to show theprince that it was indeed Desiree. and how another had come to thepalace bearing her name, at that instant he neither knew nor cared.Stealing on tip  toe from the room, he knocked at the next door, whichwas opened by Eglantine, who thought it was the old woman bearing theirsupper.She started back at the sight of the prince, whom this time she alsorecognised. But he thrust her aside, and flung himself at the feet ofDesiree, to whom he poured out all his heart!Dawn found them still conversing. and the sun was high in the heavensbefore the princess perceived that she retained her human form. Ah!how happy she was when she knew that the days of her punishment wereover. and with a glad voice she told the prince the tale of herenchantment.So the story ended well after all. and the fairy Tulip, who turned outto be the old woman of the hut, made the young couple such a weddingfeast as had never been seen since the world began. And everybody wasdelighted, except Cerisette and her mother, who were put in a boat andcarried to a small island, where they had to work hard for their living.