A young peasant in the parish of Mellby (in Blekinge), who often amusedhimself with hunting, saw one day three swans flying toward him, whichsettled down upon the strand of a sound nearby. Approaching the place, hewas astonished at seeing the three swans divest themselves of theirfeathery attire, which they threw into the grass, and three maidens ofdazzling beauty step forth and spring into the water. After sporting inthe waves awhile they returned to the land, where they resumed theirformer garb and shape and flew away in the same direction from which theycame.One of them, the youngest and fairest, had, in the meantime, so smittenthe young hunter that neither night nor day could he tear his thoughtsfrom the bright image. His mother, noticing that something was wrong withher son, and that the chase, which had formerly been his favoritepleasure, had lost its attractions, asked him finally the cause of hismelancholy, whereupon he related to her what he had seen, and declaredthat there was no longer any happiness in this life for him if he couldnot possess the fair swan maiden."Nothing is easier," said the mother. "Go at sunset next Thursdayevening to the place where you last saw her. When the three swans come,give attention to where your chosen one lays her feathery garb, take it,and hasten away."The young man listened to his mother's instructions, and, betakinghimself, the following Thursday evening, to a convenient hiding place nearthe sound, he waited, with impatience, the coming of the swans. The sunwas just sinking behind the trees when the young man's ears were greetedby a whizzing in the air, and the three swans settled down upon the beach,as on their former visit.As soon as they had laid off their swan attire they were againtransformed into the most beautiful maidens, and, springing out upon thewhite sand, they were soon enjoying themselves in the water. From hishiding place the young hunter had taken careful note of where hisenchantress had laid her swan feathers. Stealing softly forth, he tookthem and returned to his place of concealment in the surrounding foliage.Soon thereafter two of the swans were heard to fly away, but the third,in search of her clothes, discovered the young man, before whom, believinghim responsible for their disappearance, she fell upon her knees andprayed that her swan attire might be returned to her. The hunter was,however, unwilling to yield the beautiful prize, and, casting a cloakaround her shoulders, carried her home.Preparations were soon made for a magnificent wedding, which took placein due form, and the young couple dwelt lovingly and contentedly together.One Thursday evening, seven years later, the hunter related to her howhe had sought and won his wife. He brought forth and showed her, also, thewhite swan feathers of her former days. No sooner were they placed in herhands than she was transformed once more into a swan, and instantly tookflight through the open window. In breathless astonishment, the man staredwildly after his rapidly vanishing wife, and before a year and a day hadpassed, he was laid, with his longings and sorrows, in his allotted placein the village churchyard.