A certain woman, carrying her infant son, went to thePandit's (future Buddha's) tank, and having bathed her son and placed himon her clothes, descended into the pond to wash her headand bathe herself.Immediately after she had gone downto bathe, a Yakinni, observing her son, and wishing toeat him, took the form of a woman, and coming near thechild, said to the woman, "Friend, this child is verypretty. Is he yours?"On her saying "Yes," the Yakinni asked her,"Shall I give the child suck?"And when she replied, "Very well," the Yakinni took up thechild, gave it a little milk, and ran away with it.The mother, seeing the woman running away with her child,ran after her, and asking her, "Where are you taking mychild to?" caught hold of her.The Yakinni then fearlessly replied,"Where did you get a child from? This one is my own son."These two were thus quarrelling, and passing by the gate of the "Hall," when the Bosat(future Buddha), hearing thenoise of their quarrel, sent for both, and inquired of themwhat the cause of their dispute was. and recognising theYakinni from the fact of her not winking, and her eyesbeing as red as olinda seeds, he inquired,"Will you abide by my decision?" and on their agreeing to do so, he causeda line to be drawn on the ground, and the child to be laidexactly in the middle of the line.He then ordered theYakinni to take hold of the child's two arms, and themother the two legs, and said, "Now, both of you pullaway, and whosoever pulls the child over the line will bedeclared the mother."They accordingly pulled the child,which suffered grievous pain thereby (and cried).The mother, whose heart burst with sorrow, then let go thechild and stood weeping.The Bosat then inquired from those who were present,"Whose heart is tender towardschildren? Is it that of the mother or of the stranger?"Many answered, "Pandit! the heart of a mother istender."Having heard this, the Pandit inquired of all,"What now do you think? Is it the woman who has thechild in her arms that is the mother, or the woman wholet go the child?"Everyone said, "O Pandit! the woman who has let go the child is the mother."Then the Pandit asked them, "Do you all know now who it isthat has stolen the child?"And when they replied, "Pandit! we do not know," he said,"Oh! this woman is a Yakinni, and she has taken the child to eat it."The people then asked the Pandit, "How do you know it?"And he replied, "Because her eyes are red and never wink,and she neither fears nor loves anybody. It is thus thatI found out that she is a Yakinni."Having thus spoken, the Pandit asked her, "Who are you?"She replied, "I am a Yakiuni.""Why did you take away this child?""Lord! to eat him," she replied.The Pandit then warning her, said, "Hear me! you foolish one. Because youcommitted sin in your last birth, you have been born aYakinni. nevertheless, you commit sin still! Oh ! howfoolish thou art!"After that, exhorting her, he madeher take the "Pansil," (five moral precepts) and sent her away.The mother, taking the child in her arms, thanked him, and said,"Lord! may you live long!" and went her way.Here ends the case regarding the son.