Long, long ago in the province of Tango there lived on the shore ofJapan in the little fishing village of Mizu no ye a young fishermannamed Urashima Taro. His father had been a fisherman before him, andhis skill had more than doubly descended to his son, for Urashima wasthe most skillful fisher in all that country side, and could catch moreBonito and Tai in a day than his comrades could in a week.But in the little fishing village, more than for being a clever fisherof the sea was he known for his kind heart. In his whole life he hadnever hurt anything, either great or small, and when a boy, hiscompanions had always laughed at him, for he would never join with themin teasing animals, but always tried to keep them from this cruel sport.One soft summer twilight he was going home at the end of a day'sfishing when he came upon a group of children. They were all screamingand talking at the tops of their voices, and seemed to be in a state ofgreat excitement about something, and on his going up to them to seewhat was the matter he saw that they were tormenting a tortoise. Firstone boy pulled it this way, then another boy pulled it that way, whilea third child beat it with a stick, and the fourth hammered its shellwith a stone.Now Urashima felt very sorry for the poor tortoise and made up his mindto rescue it. He spoke to the boys:"Look here, boys, you are treating that poor tortoise so badly that itwill soon die!"The boys, who were all of an age when children seem to delight in beingcruel to animals, took no notice of Urashima's gentle reproof, but wenton teasing it as before. One of the older boys answered:"Who cares whether it lives or dies? We do not. Here, boys, go on, goon!"And they began to treat the poor tortoise more cruelly than ever.Urashima waited a moment, turning over in his mind what would be thebest way to deal with the boys. He would try to persuade them to givethe tortoise up to him, so he smiled at them and said:"I am sure you are all good, kind boys! Now won't you give me thetortoise? I should like to have it so much!""No, we won't give you the tortoise," said one of the boys. "Why shouldwe? We caught it ourselves.""What you say is true," said Urashima, "but I do not ask you to give itto me for nothing. I will give you some money for it in other words,the Ojisan (Uncle) will buy it of you. Won't that do for you, my boys?"He held up the money to them, strung on a piece of string through ahole in the center of each coin. "Look, boys, you can buy anything youlike with this money. You can do much more with this money than you canwith that poor tortoise. See what good boys you are to listen to me."The boys were not bad boys at all, they were only mischievous, and asUrashima spoke they were won by his kind smile and gentle words andbegan "to be of his spirit," as they say in Japan. Gradually they allcame up to him, the ringleader of the little band holding out thetortoise to him."Very well, Ojisan, we will give you the tortoise if you will give usthe money!" And Urashima took the tortoise and gave the money to theboys, who, calling to each other, scampered away and were soon out ofsight.Then Urashima stroked the tortoise's back, saying as he did so:"Oh, you poor thing! Poor thing! there, there! you are safe now! Theysay that a stork lives for a thousand years, but the tortoise for tenthousand years. You have the longest life of any creature in thisworld, and you were in great danger of having that precious life cutshort by those cruel boys. Luckily I was passing by and saved you, andso life is still yours. Now I am going to take you back to your home,the sea, at once. Do not let yourself be caught again, for there mightbe no one to save you next time!"All the time that the kind fisherman was speaking he was walkingquickly to the shore and out upon the rocks. then putting the tortoiseinto the water he watched the animal disappear, and turned homewardshimself, for he was tired and the sun had set.The next morning Urashima went out as usual in his boat. The weatherwas fine and the sea and sky were both blue and soft in the tender hazeof the summer morning. Urashima got into his boat and dreamily pushedout to sea, throwing his line as he did so. He soon passed the otherfishing boats and left them behind him till they were lost to sight inthe distance, and his boat drifted further and further out upon theblue waters. Somehow, he knew not why, he felt unusually happy thatmorning. and he could not help wishing that, like the tortoise he setfree the day before, he had thousands of years to live instead of hisown short span of human life.He was suddenly startled from his reverie by hearing his own namecalled:"Urashima, Urashima!"Clear as a bell and soft as the summer wind the name floated over thesea.He stood up and looked in every direction, thinking that one of theother boats had overtaken him, but gaze as he might over the wideexpanse of water, near or far there was no sign of a boat, so the voicecould not have come from any human being.Startled, and wondering who or what it was that had called him soclearly, he looked in all directions round about him and saw thatwithout his knowing it a tortoise had come to the side of the boat.Urashima saw with surprise that it was the very tortoise he had rescuedthe day before."Well, Mr. Tortoise," said Urashima, "was it you who called my namejust now?"The tortoise nodded its head several times and said:"Yes, it was I. Yesterday in your honorable shadow (o kage sama de) mylife was saved, and I have come to offer you my thanks and to tell youhow grateful I am for your kindness to me.""Indeed," said Urashima, "that is very polite of you. Come up into theboat. I would offer you a smoke, but as you are a tortoise doubtlessyou do not smoke," and the fisherman laughed at the joke."He he he he!" laughed the tortoise. "sake (rice wine) is my favoriterefreshment, but I do not care for tobacco.""Indeed," said Urashima, "I regret very much that I have no "sake" inmy boat to offer you, but come up and dry your back in thesun tortoises always love to do that."So the tortoise climbed into the boat, the fisherman helping him, andafter an exchange of complimentary speeches the tortoise said:"Have you ever seen Rin Gin, the Palace of the Dragon King of the Sea,Urashima?"The fisherman shook his head and replied. "No. year after year the seahas been my home, but though I have often heard of the Dragon King'srealm under the sea I have never yet set eyes on that wonderful place.It must be very far away, if it exists at all!""Is that really so? You have never seen the Sea King's Palace? Then youhave missed seeing one of the most wonderful sights in the wholeuniverse. It is far away at the bottom of the sea, but if I take youthere we shall soon reach the place. If you would like to see the SeaKing's land I will be your guide.""I should like to go there, certainly, and you are very kind to thinkof taking me, but you must remember that I am only a poor mortal andhave not the power of swimming like a sea creature such as you are "Before the fisherman could say more the tortoise stopped him, saying:"What? You need not swim yourself. If you will ride on my back I willtake you without any trouble on your part.""But," said Urashima, "how is it possible for me to ride on your smallback?""It may seem absurd to you, but I assure you that you can do so. Try atonce! Just come and get on my back, and see if it is as impossible asyou think!"As the tortoise finished speaking, Urashima looked at its shell, andstrange to say he saw that the creature had suddenly grown so big thata man could easily sit on its back."This is strange indeed!" said Urashima. "then. Mr. Tortoise, with yourkind permission I will get on your back. Dokoisho!" he exclaimed ashe jumped on."All right" (only used by lower classes).The tortoise, with an unmoved face, as if this strange proceeding werequite an ordinary event, said:"Now we will set out at our leisure," and with these words he leaptinto the sea with Urashima on his back. Down through the water thetortoise dived. For a long time these two strange companions rodethrough the sea. Urashima never grew tired, nor his clothes moist withthe water. At last, far away in the distance a magnificent gateappeared, and behind the gate, the long, sloping roofs of a palace onthe horizon."Ya," exclaimed Urashima. "That looks like the gate of some largepalace just appearing! Mr. Tortoise, can you tell what that place is wecan now see?""That is the great gate of the Rin Gin Palace, the large roof that yousee behind the gate is the Sea King's Palace itself.""Then we have at last come to the realm of the Sea King and to hisPalace," said Urashima."Yes, indeed," answered the tortoise, "and don't you think we have comevery quickly?" And while he was speaking the tortoise reached the sideof the gate. "And here we are, and you must please walk from here."The tortoise now went in front, and speaking to the gatekeeper, said:"This is Urashima Taro, from the country of Japan. I have had the honorof bringing him as a visitor to this kingdom. Please show him the way."Then the gatekeeper, who was a fish, at once led the way through thegate before them.The red bream, the flounder, the sole, the cuttlefish, and all thechief vassals of the Dragon King of the Sea now came out with courtlybows to welcome the stranger."Urashima Sama, Urashima Sama! welcome to the Sea Palace, the home ofthe Dragon King of the Sea. Thrice welcome are you, having come fromsuch a distant country. And you, Mr. Tortoise, we are greatly indebtedto you for all your trouble in bringing Urashima here." Then, turningagain to Urashima, they said, "Please follow us this way," and fromhere the whole band of fishes became his guides.Urashima, being only a poor fisher lad, did not know how to behave in apalace. but, strange though it was all to him, he did not feel ashamedor embarrassed, but followed his kind guides quite calmly where theyled to the inner palace. When he reached the portals a beautifulPrincess with her attendant maidens came out to welcome him. She wasmore beautiful than any human being, and was robed in flowing garmentsof red and soft green like the under side of a wave, and golden threadsglimmered through the folds of her gown. Her lovely black hair streamedover her shoulders in the fashion of a king's daughter many hundreds ofyears ago, and when she spoke her voice sounded like music over thewater. Urashima was lost in wonder while he looked upon her, and hecould not speak. Then he remembered that he ought to bow, but before hecould make a low obeisance the Princess took him by the hand and ledhim to a beautiful hall, and to the seat of honor at the upper end, andbade him be seated."Urashima Taro, it gives me the highest pleasure to welcome you to myfather's kingdom," said the Princess. "Yesterday you set free atortoise, and I have sent for you to thank you for saving my life, forI was that tortoise. Now if you like you shall live here forever in theland of eternal youth, where summer never dies and where sorrow nevercomes, and I will be your bride if you will, and we will live togetherhappily forever afterwards!"And as Urashima listened to her sweet words and gazed upon her lovelyface his heart was filled with a great wonder and joy, and he answeredher, wondering if it was not all a dream:"Thank you a thousand times for your kind speech. There is nothing Icould wish for more than to be permitted to stay here with you in thisbeautiful land, of which I have often heard, but have never seen tothis day. Beyond all words, this is the most wonderful place I haveever seen."While he was speaking a train of fishes appeared, all dressed inceremonial, trailing garments. One by one, silently and with statelysteps, they entered the hall, bearing on coral trays delicacies of fishand seaweed, such as no one can dream of, and this wondrous feast wasset before the bride and bridegroom. The bridal was celebrated withdazzling splendor, and in the Sea King's realm there was greatrejoicing. As soon as the young pair had pledged themselves in thewedding cup of wine, three times three, music was played, and songswere sung, and fishes with silver scales and golden tails stepped infrom the waves and danced. Urashima enjoyed himself with all his heart.Never in his whole life had he sat down to such a marvelous feast.When the feast was over the Princes asked the bridegroom if he wouldlike to walk through the palace and see all there was to be seen. Thenthe happy fisherman, following his bride, the Sea King's daughter, wasshown all the wonders of that enchanted land where youth and joy gohand in hand and neither time nor age can touch them. The palace wasbuilt of coral and adorned with pearls, and the beauties and wonders ofthe place were so great that the tongue fails to describe them.But, to Urashima, more wonderful than the palace was the garden thatsurrounded it. Here was to be seen at one time the scenery of the fourdifferent seasons. the beauties of summer and winter, spring andautumn, were displayed to the wondering visitor at once.First, when he looked to the east, the plum and cherry trees were seenin full bloom, the nightingales sang in the pink avenues, andbutterflies flitted from flower to flower.Looking to the south all the trees were green in the fullness ofsummer, and the day cicala and the night cricket chirruped loudly.Looking to the west the autumn maples were ablaze like a sunset sky,and the chrysanthemums were in perfection.Looking to the north the change made Urashima start, for the ground wassilver white with snow, and trees and bamboos were also covered withsnow and the pond was thick with ice.And each day there were new joys and new wonders for Urashima, and sogreat was his happiness that he forgot everything, even the home he hadleft behind and his parents and his own country, and three days passedwithout his even thinking of all he had left behind. Then his mind cameback to him and he remembered who he was, and that he did not belong tothis wonderful land or the Sea King's palace, and he said to himself:"O dear! I must not stay on here, for I have an old father and motherat home. What can have happened to them all this time? How anxious theymust have been these days when I did not return as usual. I must goback at once without letting one more day pass." And he began toprepare for the journey in great haste.Then he went to his beautiful wife, the Princess, and bowing low beforeher he said:"Indeed, I have been very happy with you for a long time, Otohime Sama"(for that was her name), "and you have been kinder to me than any wordscan tell. But now I must say good by. I must go back to my old parents."Then Otohime Sama began to weep, and said softly and sadly:"Is it not well with you here, Urashima, that you wish to leave me sosoon? Where is the haste? Stay with me yet another day only!"But Urashima had remembered his old parents, and in Japan the duty toparents is stronger than everything else, stronger even than pleasureor love, and he would not be persuaded, but answered:"Indeed, I must go. Do not think that I wish to leave you. It is notthat. I must go and see my old parents. Let me go for one day and Iwill come back to you.""Then," said the Princess sorrowfully, "there is nothing to be done. Iwill send you back to day to your father and mother, and instead oftrying to keep you with me one more day, I shall give you this as atoken of our love please take it back with you." and she brought him abeautiful lacquer box tied about with a silken cord and tassels of redsilk.Urashima had received so much from the Princess already that he feltsome compunction in taking the gift, and said:"It does not seem right for me to take yet another gift from you afterall the many favors I have received at your hands, but because it isyour wish I will do so," and then he added:"Tell me what is this box?""That," answered the Princess "is the tamate bako (Box of the JewelHand), and it contains something very precious. You must not open thisbox, whatever happens! If you open it something dreadful will happen toyou! Now promise me that you will never open this box!"And Urashima promised that he would never, never open the box whateverhappened.Then bidding good by to Otohime Sama he went down to the seashore, thePrincess and her attendants following him, and there he found a largetortoise waiting for him.He quickly mounted the creature's back and was carried away over theshining sea into the East. He looked back to wave his hand to OtohimeSama till at last he could see her no more, and the land of the SeaKing and the roofs of the wonderful palace were lost in the far, fardistance. Then, with his face turned eagerly towards his own land, helooked for the rising of the blue hills on the horizon before him.At last the tortoise carried him into the bay he knew so well, and tothe shore from whence he had set out. He stepped on to the shore andlooked about him while the tortoise rode away back to the Sea King'srealm.But what is the strange fear that seizes Urashima as he stands andlooks about him? Why does he gaze so fixedly at the people that passhim by, and why do they in turn stand and look at him? The shore is thesame and the hills are the same, but the people that he sees walkingpast him have very different faces to those he had known so well before.Wondering what it can mean he walks quickly towards his old home. Eventhat looks different, but a house stands on the spot, and he calls out:"Father, I have just returned!" and he was about to enter, when he sawa strange man coming out."Perhaps my parents have moved while I have been away, and have gonesomewhere else," was the fisherman's thought. Somehow he began to feelstrangely anxious, he could not tell why."Excuse me," said he to the man who was staring at him, "but tillwithin the last few days I have lived in this house. My name isUrashima Taro. Where have my parents gone whom I left here?"A very bewildered expression came over the face of the man, and, stillgazing intently on Urashima's face, he said:"What? Are you Urashima Taro?""Yes," said the fisherman, "I am Urashima Taro!""Ha, ha!" laughed the man, "you must not make such jokes. It is truethat once upon a time a man called Urashima Taro did live in thisvillage, but that is a story three hundred years old. He could notpossibly be alive now!"When Urashima heard these strange words he was frightened, and said:"Please, please, you must not joke with me, I am greatly perplexed. Iam really Urashima Taro, and I certainly have not lived three hundredyears. Till four or five days ago I lived on this spot. Tell me what Iwant to know without more joking, please."But the man's face grew more and more grave, and he answered:"You may or may not be Urashima Taro, I don't know. But the UrashimaTaro of whom I have heard is a man who lived three hundred years ago.Perhaps you are his spirit come to revisit your old home?""Why do you mock me?" said Urashima. "I am no spirit! I am a livingman do you not see my feet." and "don don," he stamped on the ground,first with one foot and then with the other to show the man. (Japaneseghosts have no feet.)"But Urashima Taro lived three hundred years ago, that is all I know.it is written in the village chronicles," persisted the man, who couldnot believe what the fisherman said.Urashima was lost in bewilderment and trouble. He stood looking allaround him, terribly puzzled, and, indeed, something in the appearanceof everything was different to what he remembered before he went away,and the awful feeling came over him that what the man said was perhapstrue. He seemed to be in a strange dream. The few days he had spent inthe Sea King's palace beyond the sea had not been days at all: they hadbeen hundreds of years, and in that time his parents had died and allthe people he had ever known, and the village had written down hisstory. There was no use in staying here any longer. He must get back tohis beautiful wife beyond the sea.He made his way back to the beach, carrying in his hand the box whichthe Princess had given him. But which was the way? He could not find italone! Suddenly he remembered the box, the tamate bako."The Princess told me when she gave me the box never to open it thatit contained a very precious thing. But now that I have no home, nowthat I have lost everything that was dear to me here, and my heartgrows thin with sadness, at such a time, if I open the box, surely Ishall find something that will help me, something that will show me theway back to my beautiful Princess over the sea. There is nothing elsefor me to do now. Yes, yes, I will open the box and look in!"And so his heart consented to this act of disobedience, and he tried topersuade himself that he was doing the right thing in breaking hispromise.Slowly, very slowly, he untied the red silk cord, slowly andwonderingly he lifted the lid of the precious box. And what did hefind? Strange to say only a beautiful little purple cloud rose out ofthe box in three soft wisps. For an instant it covered his face andwavered over him as if loath to go, and then it floated away like vaporover the sea.Urashima, who had been till that moment like a strong and handsomeyouth of twenty four, suddenly became very, very old. His back doubledup with age, his hair turned snowy white, his face wrinkled and he felldown dead on the beach.Poor Urashima! because of his disobedience he could never return to theSea King's realm or the lovely Princess beyond the sea.Little children, never be disobedient to those who are wiser than youfor disobedience was the beginning of all the miseries and sorrows oflife.