Know, O my lady, that I was not born one eyed and mine is astrange story. an it were graven with needle graver on the eyecorners, it were a warner to whoso would be warned. I am a King,son of a King, and was brought up like a Prince. I learnedintoning the Koran according the seven schools. and Iread all manner books, and held disputations on their contentswith the doctors and men of science. moreover I studied star loreand the fair sayings of poets and I exercised myself in allbranches of learning until I surpassed the people of my time. myskill in calligraphy exceeded that of all the scribes. and myfame was bruited abroad over all climes and cities, and all thekings learned to know my name. Amongst others the King of Hindheard of me and sent to my father to invite me to his court, withofferings and presents and rarities such as befit royalties. Somy father fitted out six ships for me and my people. and we putto sea and sailed for the space of a full month till we made theland. Then we brought out the horses that were with us in theships. and, after loading the camels with our presents for thePrince, we set forth inland. But we had marched only a littleway, when behold, a dust cloud up flew, and grew until itwalled the horizon from view. After an hour or so theveil lifted and discovered beneath it fifty horsemen, raveninglions to the sight, in steel armour dight. We observed themstraightly and lo! they were cutters off of the highway, wild aswild Arabs. When they saw that we were only four and had with usbut the ten camels carrying the presents, they dashed down uponus with lances at rest. We signed to them, with our fingers, asit were saying, "We be messengers of the great King of Hind, soharm us not!" but they answered on like wise, "We are not in hisdominions to obey nor are we subject to his sway." Then they setupon us and slew some of my slaves and put the lave to flight.and I also fled after I had gotten a wound, a grievous hurt,whilst the Arabs were taken up with the money and the presentswhich were with us. I went forth unknowing whither I went, havingbecome mean as I was mighty. and I fared on until I came to thecrest of a mountain where I took shelter for the night in a cave.When day arose I set out again, nor ceased after this fashiontill I arrived at a fair city and a well filled. Now it was theseason when Winter was turning away with his rime and to greetthe world with his flowers came Prime, and the young blooms werespringing and the streams flowed ringing, and the birds weresweetly singing, as saith the poet concerning a certain city whendescribing it: A place secure from every thought of fear Safety and peace forever lord it here:Its beauties seem to beautify its sons And as in Heaven itshappy folk appear.I was glad of my arrival for I was wearied with the way, andyellow of face for weakness and want. but my plight was pitiableand I knew not whither to betake me. So I accosted a Tailorsitting in his little shop and saluted him. he returned my salam,and bade me kindly welcome and wished me well and entreated megently and asked me of the cause of my strangerhood. I told himall my past from first to last. and he was concerned on myaccount and said, "O youth, disclose not thy secret to any: theKing of this city is the greatest enemy thy father hath, andthere is blood wit between them and thou hast cause tofear for thy life." Then he set meat and drink before me. and Iate and drank and he with me. and we conversed freely till nightfall, when he cleared me a place in a corner of his shop andbrought me a carpet and a coverlet. I tarried with him threedays. at the end of which time he said to me, "Knowest thou nocalling whereby to win thy living, O my son?" "I am learned inthe law," I replied, "and a doctor of doctrine. an adept in artand science, a mathematician and a notable penman." He rejoined,"Thy calling is of no account in our city, where not a soul understandeth science or even writing or aught save money making."Then said I, "By Allah, I know nothing but what I havementioned." and he answered, "Gird thy middle and take thee ahatchet and a cord, and go and hew wood in the wold for thy dailybread, till Allah send thee relief. and tell none who thou artlest they slay thee." Then he bought me an axe and a rope andgave me in charge to certain wood cutters. and with theseguardians I went forth into the forest, where I cut fuel wood thewhole of my day and came back in the evening bearing my bundle onmy head. I sold it for half a diner, with part of which I boughtprovision and laid by the rest. In such work I spent a whole yearand when this was ended I went out one day, as was my wont, intothe wilderness. and, wandering away from my companions, I chancedon a thickly grown lowland in which there was anabundance of wood. So I entered and I found the gnarled stump ofa great tree and loosened the ground about it and shovelled awaythe earth. Presently my hatchet rang upon a copper ring. so Icleared away the soil and behold, the ring was attached to awooden trap door. This I raised and there appeared beneath it astaircase. I descended the steps to the bottom and came to adoor, which I opened and found myself in a noble hall strong ofstructure and beautifully built, where was a damsel like a pearlof great price, whose favour banished from my heart all grief andcark and care. and whose soft speech healed the soul in despairand captivated the wise and ware. Her figure measured five feetin height. her breasts were firm and upright. her cheek a verygarden of delight. her colour lively bright. her face gleamedlike dawn through curly tresses which gloomed like night, andabove the snows of her bosom glittered teeth of a pearlywhite. As the poet said of one like her: Slim waisted loveling jetty hair encrowned A wand of willow ona sandy mound:And as saith another. Four things that meet not, save they here unite To shed myheart blood and to rape my sprite:Brilliantest forehead. tresses jetty bright. Cheeks rosy redand stature beauty dight.When I looked upon her I prostrated myself before Him who hadcreated her, for the beauty and loveliness He had shaped in her,and she looked at me and said, "Art thou man or Jinni?" "I am aman," answered I, and she, "Now who brought thee to this placewhere I have abided five and twenty years without even yet seeingman in it?" Quoth I (and indeed I found her words wonder sweet,and my heart was melted to the core by them), "O my lady, my goodfortune led me hither for the dispelling of my cark and care."Then I related to her all my mishap from first to last, and mycase appeared to her exceeding grievous. so she wept and said, "Iwill tell thee my story in my turn. I am the daughter of the KingIfitamus, lord of the Islands of Abnus, who married me tomy cousin, the son of my paternal uncle. but on my wedding nightan Ifrit named Jirjis bin Rajmus, first cousin that is,mother's sister's son, of Iblis, the Foul Fiend, snatched me upand, flying away with me like a bird, set me down in this place,whither he conveyed all I needed of fine stuffs, raiment andjewels and furniture, and meat and drink and other else. Once inevery ten days he comes here and lies a single night with me, andthen wends his way, for he took me without the consent of hisfamily. and he hath agreed with me that if ever I need him bynight or by day, I have only to pass my hand over yonder twolines engraved upon the alcove, and he will appear to me beforemy fingers cease touching. Four days have now passed since he washere. and, as there remain six days before he come again, say me,wilt thou abide with me five days, and go hence the day beforehis coming?" I replied "Yes, and yes again! O rare, if all thisbe not a dream!" Hereat she was glad and, springing to her feet,seized my hand and carried me through an arched doorway to aHammam bath, a fair hall and richly decorate. I doffed myclothes, and she doffed hers. then we bathed and she washed me.and when this was done we left the bath, and she seated me by herside upon a high divan, and brought me sherbet scented with musk.When we felt cool after the bath, she set food before me and weate and fell to talking. but presently she said to me, "Lay theedown and take thy rest, for surely thou must be weary." So Ithanked her, my lady, and lay down and slept soundly, forgettingall that had happened to me. When I awoke I found her rubbing andshampooing my feet. so I again thanked her and blessedher and we sat for awhile talking. Said she, "By Allah, I was sadat heart, for that I have dwelt alone underground for these fiveand twenty years. and praise be to Allah, who hath sent me someone with whom I can converse!" Then she asked, "O youth, whatsayest thou to wine?" and I answered, "Do as thou wilt." Where upon she went to a cupboard and took out a sealed flask of rightold wine and set off the table with flowers and scented herbs andbegan to sing these lines: "Had we known of thy coming we fain had dispread The cores ofour hearts or the balls of our eyes.Our cheeks as a carpet to greet thee had thrown And our eyelidshad strown for thy feet to betread."Now when she finished her verse I thanked her, for indeed loveof her had gotten hold of my heart and my grief and anguish weregone. We sat at converse and carousel till nightfall, and withher I spent the night such night never spent I in all my life!On the morrow delight followed delight till midday, by which timeI had drunken wine so freely that I had lost my wits, and stoodup, staggering to the right and to the left, and said "Come, O mycharmer, and I will carry thee up from this underground vault anddeliver thee from the spell of thy Jinni." She laughed andreplied "Content thee and hold thy peace: of every ten days oneis for the Ifrit and the other nine are thine." Quoth I (and ingood sooth drink had got the better of me), "This very instantwill I break down the alcove whereon is graven the talisman andsummon the Ifrit that I may slay him, for it is a practice ofmine to slay Ifrits!" When she heard my words her colour waxedwan and she said, "By Allah, do not!" and she began repeating: "This is a thing wherein destruction lies I rede thee shun itan thy wits be wise."And these also: "O thou who seekest severance, draw the rein Of thy swift steednor seek o'ermuch t' advance.Ah stay! for treachery is the rule of life, And sweets ofmeeting end in severance."I heard her verse but paid no heed to her words, nay, I raised myfoot and administered to the alcove a mighty kick. And Shahrazadperceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permisted say.When it was the Thirteenth Night,She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the secondKalandar thus continued his tale to the lady: But when, O mymistress, I kicked that alcove with a mighty kick, behold, theair starkened and darkened and thundered and lightened. the earthtrembled and quaked and the world became invisible. At once thefumes of wine left my head: I cried to her, "What is the matter?"and she replied, "The Ifrit is upon us! did I not warn thee ofthis? By Allah, thou hast brought ruin upon me. but fly for thylife and go up by the way thou camest down!" So I fled up thestaircase. but, in the excess of my fear, I forgot sandals andhatchet. And when I had mounted two steps I turned to look forthem, and lo! I saw the earth cleave asunder, and there arosefrom it an Ifrit, a monster of hideousness, who said to thedamsel "What trouble and posher be this wherewith thou disturbestme? What mishap hath betided thee?" "No mishap hath befallen me"she answered, "save that my breast was straitened and myheart heavy with sadness! so I drank a little wine to broaden itand to hearten myself. then I rose to obey a call of Nature, butthe wine had gotten into my head and I fell against the alcove.""Thou liest, like the whore thou art!" shrieked the Ifrit. and helooked around the hall right and left till he caught sight of myaxe and sandals and said to her, "What be these but thebelongings of some mortal who hath been in thy society?" Sheanswered, "I never set eyes upon them till this moment: they musthave been brought by thee hither cleaving to thy garments." Quoththe Ifrit, "These words are absurd. thou harlot! thou strumpet!"Then he stripped her stark naked and, stretching her upon thefloor, bound her hands and feet to four stakes, like onecrucified. and set about torturing and trying to make herconfess. I could not bear to stand listening to her cries andgroans. so I climbed the stair on the quake with fear. and when Ireached the top I replaced the trap door and covered it withearth. Then repented I of what I had done with penitenceexceeding. and thought of the lady and her beauty and loveliness,and the tortures she was suffering at the hands of the accursedIfrit, after her quiet life of five and twenty years. and how allthat had happened to her was for the cause of me. I bethought meof my father and his kingly estate and how I had become awoodcutter. and how, after my time had been awhile serene, theworld had again waxed turbid and troubled to me. So I weptbitterly and repeated this couplet: What time Fate's tyranny shall most oppress thee Perpend! oneday shall joy thee, one distress thee!Then I walked till I reached the home of my friend, the Tailor,whom I found most anxiously expecting me. indeed he was, as thesaying goes, on coals of fire for my account. And when he saw mehe said, "All night long my heart hath been heavy, fearing forthee from wild beasts or other mischances. Now praise be to Allahfor thy safety!" I thanked him for his friendly solicitude and,retiring to my corner, sat pondering and musing on what hadbefallen me. and I blamed and chided myself for my meddlesomefolly and my frowardness in kicking the alcove. I was callingmyself to account when behold, my friend, the Tailor, came to meand said, "O youth, in the shop there is an old man, aPersian, who seeketh thee: he hath thy hatchet and thysandals which he had taken to the woodcutters, saying, "Iwas going out at what time the Mu'azzin began the call to dawnprayer, when I chanced upon these things and know not whose theyare. so direct me to their owner." The woodcutters recognised thyhatchet and directed him to thee: he is sitting in my shop, sofare forth to him and thank him and take thine axe and sandals."When I heard these words I turned yellow with fear and feltstunned as by a blow. and, before I could recover myself, lo! thefloor of my private room clove asunder, and out of it rose thePersian who was the Ifrit. He had tortured the lady withexceeding tortures, natheless she would not confess to him aught.so he took the hatchet and sandals and said to her, "As surely asI am Jirjis of the seed of Iblis, I will bring thee back theowner of this and these!" Then he went to the woodcutterswith the presence aforesaid and, being directed to me, afterwaiting a while in the shop till the fact was confirmed, hesuddenly snatched me up as a hawk snatcheth a mouse and dew highin air. but presently descended and plunged with me under theearth (I being aswoon the while), and lastly set me down in thesubterranean palace wherein I had passed that blissful night. Andthere I saw the lady stripped to the skin, her limbs bound tofour stakes and blood welling from her sides. At the sight myeyes ran over with tears. but the Ifrit covered her person andsaid, "O wanton, is not this man thy lover?" She looked upon meand replied, "I wot him not nor have I ever seen him before thishour!" Quoth the Ifrit, "What! this torture and yet noconfessing." and quoth she,"I never saw this man in my born days,and it is not lawful in Allah's sight to tell lies on him." "Ifthou know him not," said the Ifrit to her, "take this sword andstrike off his head.'' She hent the sword in hand andcame close up to me. and I signalled to her with my eyebrows, mytears the while flowing adown my cheeks. She understood me andmade answer, also by signs, "How couldest thou bring all thisevil upon me?" and I rejoined after the same fashion, "This isthe time for mercy and forgiveness." And the mute tongue of mycase spake aloud saying: Mine eyes were dragomans for my tongue betted And told fullclear the love I fain would hide:When last we met and tears in torrents railed For tongue struckdumb my glances testified:She signed with eye glance while her lips were mute I signedwith fingers and she kenned th' implied:Our eyebrows did all duty 'twixt us twain. And we beingspeechless Love spake loud and plain.Then, O my mistress, the lady threw away the sword and said, "Howshall I strike the neck of one I wot not, and who hath done me noevil? Such deed were not lawful in my law!" and she held herhand. Said the Ifrit, "'Tis grievous to thee to slay thy lover.and, because he hath lain with thee, thou endurest these tormentsand obstinately refusest to confess. After this it is clear to methat only like loveth and pitieth like." Then he turned to me andasked me, "O man, haply thou also dost not know this woman."whereto I answered, "And pray who may she be? assuredly I neversaw her till this instant." "Then take the sword," said he "andstrike off her head and I will believe that thou wottest her notand will leave thee free to go, and will not deaf 'hardly withthee." I replied, "That will I do." and, taking the sword wentforward sharply and raised my hand to smite. But she signed to mewith her eyebrows, "Have I failed thee in aught of love. and isit thus that thou requirest me?" I understood what her looksimplied and answered her with an eye glance, "I will sacrifice mysoul for thee." And the tongue of the case wrote in our heartsthese lines: How many a lover with his eyebrows speaketh To his beloved, ashis passion pleadeth:With flashing eyne his passion he inspireth And well she seethwhat kits pleading needeth.How sweet the look when each on other gazeth. And with whatswiftness and how sure it speedeth:And this with eyebrows all his passion writeth. And that witheyeballs all his passion readeth.Then my eyes filled with tears to overflowing and I cast thesword from my hand saying, "O mighty Ifrit and hero, if a womanlacking wits and faith deem it unlawful to strike off my head,how can it be lawful for me, a man, to smite her neck whom Inever saw in my whole life. I cannot do such misdeed though thoucause me drink the cup of death and perdition." Then said theIfrit, "Ye twain show the good understanding between you. but Iwill let you see how such doings end." He took the sword, andstruck off the lady's hands first, with four strokes, and thenher feet. whilst I looked on and made sure of death and shefarewelled me with her dying eyes. So the Ifrit cried at her,"Thou whorest and makest me a wittol with thine eyes." and struckher so that her head went flying. Then he turned to me and said,"O mortal, we have it in our law that, when the wife committethadvowtry it is lawful for us to slay her. As for this damsel Isnatched her away on her bride night when she was a girl oftwelve and she knew no one but myself. I used to come to her onceevery ten days and lie with her the night, under the semblance ofa man, a Persian. and when I was well assured that she hadcuckolded me, I slew her. But as for thee I am not well satisfiedthat thou hast wronged me in her. nevertheless I must not letthee go unharmed. so ask a boon of me and I will grant it." ThenI rejoiced, O my lady, with ex ceeding joy and said, "What boonshall I crave of thee?" He replied, "Ask me this boon. into whatshape I shall bewitch thee. wilt thou be a dog, or an ass or anape?" I rejoined (and indeed I had hoped that mercy might beshown me), "By Allah, spare me, that Allah spare thee for sparinga Moslem and a man who never wronged thee." And I humbled myselfbefore him with exceeding humility, and remained standing in hispresence, saying, "I am sore oppressed by circumstance." Hereplied "Talk me no long talk, it is in my power to slay thee.but I give thee instead thy choice." Quoth I, "O thou Ifrit, itwould besit thee to pardon me even as the Envied pardoned theEnvier." Quoth he, "And how was that?" and I began to tell him