There lived once together a king and a queen, and a princess who was theirdaughter. The princess had worn out every evening seven pairs of slippersmade of iron. and the king could not make out how that could be, though hewas always trying to find out. The king at last issued a decree, thatwhosoever should be able to find out how the princess managed to wear outseven slippers made of iron in the short space of time between morning andevening, he would give the princess in marriage if he were a man, and if awoman he would marry her to a prince.It happened that a soldier was walking along an open country road carryingon his back a sack of oranges, and he saw two men fighting and giving eachother great blows.The soldier went up to them and asked them, "Oh, men, why are you givingeach other such blows?""Why indeed should it be!" they replied. "Because our father is dead, andhe has left us this cap, and we both wish to possess it.""Is it possible that for the sake of a cap you should be fighting?"inquired the soldier.The men then said, "The reason is that this cap has a charm, and if anyone puts it on and says, 'Cap, cover me so that no one shall see me!' noone can see us."The soldier upon hearing this said to them, "I'll tell you what I can dofor you. you let me remain here with the cap whilst I throw this orange toa great distance, and you run after it, and the one that shall pick it upfirst shall be the possessor of the cap."The men agreed to this, and the soldier threw the orange to a greatdistance, as far as he possibly could, whilst the men both ran to pick itup. Here the soldier without loss of time put on the cap saying, "Cap,make me invisible."When the men returned with the orange they could see nothing and nobody.The soldier went away with the cap, and further on he met on his road twoother men fighting, and he said to them, "Oh, foolish men, why do you giveeach other such blows?"The men replied, "Indeed, you may well ask why, if it were not that fatherdied and left us this pair of boots, and we, each of us, wish to be thesole possessor of them."The soldier replied, "Is it possible that for the matter of a pair ofboots you should be fighting thus?"And they replying said, "It is because these boots are charmed, and whenone wishes to go any distance he has only to say, 'Boots take me here orthere,' wherever one should wish to go, and instantly they convey one toany place."The soldier said to them, "I will tell you what to do. I will throw anorange to a great distance, and you give me the boots to keep. you run forthe orange, and the first who shall pick it up shall have the pair ofboots."He threw the orange to a great distance and both men ran to catch it. Uponthis the soldier said, "Cap, make me invisible, boots take me to thecity!" and when the men returned they missed the boots, and the soldier,for he had gone away.He arrived at the capital and heard the decree read which the king hadpromulgated, and he began to consider what he had better do in this case."With this cap, and with these boots I can surely find out what theprincess does to wear out seven pairs of slippers made of iron in onenight." He went and presented himself at the palace.When the king saw him he said, "Do you really know a way of finding outhow the princess, my daughter, can wear out seven slippers in one night?"The soldier replied, "I only ask you to let me try.""But you must remember," said the king, "that if at the end of three daysyou have not found out the mystery, I shall order you to be put to death."The soldier to this replied that he was prepared to take the consequences.The king ordered him to remain in the palace. Every attention was paid toall his wants and wishes, he had his meals with the king at the sametable, and slept in the princess's room.But what did the princess do? She took him a beverage to his bedside andgave it to him to drink. This beverage was a sleeping draught which shegave him to make him sleep all night. Next morning the soldier had notseen the princess do anything, for he had slept very soundly the wholenight.When he appeared at breakfast the king asked him, "Well, did you seeanything?""Your majesty must know that I have seen nothing whatever."The king said, "Look well what you are at, for now there only remains twodays more for you, or else you die!"The soldier replied, "I have not the least misgivings."Night came on and the princess acted as before.Next morning the king asked him again at breakfast, "Well, have you seenanything last night?"The soldier replied, "Your majesty must know that I have seen nothingwhatever.""Be careful, then, what you do, only one day more and you die!"The soldier replied, "I have no misgivings."He then began to think it over. "It is very curious that I should sleepall night   it cannot be from anything else but from drinking thebeverage which the princess gives me. Leave me alone, I know what I shalldo. when the princess brings me the cup I shall pretend to drink, butshall throw away the beverage."The night came and the princess did not fail to bring him the beverage todrink to his bedside. The soldier made a pretence to drink it, but insteadthrew it away, and feigned sleep though he was awake. In the middle of thenight he saw the princess rise up, prepare to go out, and advance towardsthe door to leave.What did he do then? He put on the cap, drew on the boots, and said, "Capmake me invisible, boots take me wherever the princess goes."The princess entered a carriage, and the soldier followed her into thecarriage and accompanied her. He saw the carriage stop at the seashore.The princess then embarked on board a vessel decked with flags.The soldier on seeing this said, "Cap, cover me, that I may be invisible,"and embarked with the princess.She reached the land of giants, and when on passing the first sentinel, hechallenged her with "Who's there?""The Princess of Harmony," she replied.The sentinel rejoined, "Pass with your suite."The princess looked behind her, and not seeing any one following her shesaid to herself, "The sentinel cannot be in his sound mind. he said 'passwith your suite.' I do not see any one."She reached the second sentinel, who cried out at the top of his voice,"Who's there?""The Princess of Harmony," replied the princess."Pass with your suite," said the sentinel.The princess was each time more and more astonished.She came to the third sentinel, who challenged her as the others had done,"Who's there?""The Princess of Harmony.""Pass on with your suite," rejoined the sentinel.The princess as before wondered what the man could mean. After journeyingfor a long time the soldier who followed her closely saw the princessarrive at a beautiful palace, enter in, and go into a hall for dancing,where he saw many giants. The princess sat upon a seat by the side of herlover who was a giant. The soldier hid himself under their seat. The bandstruck up, and she rose to dance with the giant, and when she finished thedance she had her iron slippers all in pieces. She took them off andpushed them under her seat. The soldier immediately took possession ofthem and put them inside his sack.The princess again sat down to conversewith her lover. The band again struck up some dance music and the princessrose to dance. When she finished this dance another of her slippers hadworn out. She took them off and left them under her seat. The soldier putthese also into his sack. Finally, she danced seven times, and each timeshe danced she tore a pair of slippers made of iron. The soldier kept themall in his sack.After the ball the princess sat down to converse with her lover. and whatdid the soldier do? He turned their chairs over and threw them both on themiddle of the floor. They were very much surprised and they searchedeverywhere and through all the houses and could find no one.The giants then looked out for a book of fates they had, wherein could beseen the course of the winds and other auguries peculiar to their race.They called in a black servant to read in the book and find out what wasthe matter.The soldier rose up from where he was and said, "Cap, make me invisible."He then gave the negro a slap on the face, the negro fell to the ground,while he took possession of the book and kept it.The time was approaching when the princess must depart and return home,and not being able to stay longer she went away. The soldier followed herand she returned by the same way she came. She went on board and when shereached the city the carriage was already waiting for her.The soldier then said, "Boots take me to the palace," and he arrivedthere, took off his clothes, and went to bed.When the princess arrived she found everything in her chamber just as sheleft it, and even found the soldier fast asleep.In the morning the king said, "Well, soldier, did you see anythingremarkable last night?""Be it known to your majesty that I saw nothing whatever last night,"replied the soldier.The king then said, "According to what you say, I do not know if you areaware that you must die today."The soldier replied, "If it is so I must have patience, what else can Ido?"When the princess heard this she rejoiced much. The king then ordered thateverything for the execution should be prepared before the palace windows.When the soldier was proceeding to execution he asked the king to granthim a favor for the last time and to send for the princess so that sheshould be present.The king gave the desired permission, and the princess was present, whenhe said to her, "Is it true to say that the princess went out atmidnight?""It is not true," replied the princess."Is it true to say," again asked the soldier, "that the princess entered acarriage, and afterwards went on board a vessel and proceeded to a ballgiven in the kingdom of the giants?"The princess replied, "It is not true."The soldier yet asked her another question, "Is it true that the princesstore seven pair of slippers during the seven times she danced?" and thenhe showed her the slippers."There is no truth in all this," replied the princess.The soldier at last said to her, "Is it true to say that the princess atthe end of the ball fell on the floor from her seat, and the giants had abook brought to them to see what bewitchery and magic pervaded and hadtaken possession of the house, and which book is here?"The princess now said, "It is so."The king was delighted at the discovery and happy ending of this affair,and the soldier came to live in the palace and married the princess.