In former times there was a peasant in a village. At that time they grazed pigs in a common pasture. The peasant had a servant boy eleven or twelve years old who tended the pigs and piglets.One day a ragman came to him with a wooden flute.The one sow had six piglets, and the ragman said, "I will trade this wooden flute to you for three of your six piglets. If you blow on the flute your piglets will dance to the tune."The boy did not want to do this, fearing that his master, the peasant, would scold him and beat him.To that the ragman said, "You can tell your master that you'll give up your wages for the piglets. It is possible that you'll gain much more with the flute than your lost wages."When the boy returned home with the pigs the peasant asked him, "Where are the three piglets?""I traded them to the ragman for this flute. He said that the piglets will dance if I play the flute."The peasant was about to beat the boy, but the latter told him to take the value of the missing piglets from his wages.Early the next morning the boy let the sow and the three piglets out into the farmyard and began to blow on the flute. To the amazement of the peasant the piglets danced. Never in his lifetime had he heard of piglets that could dance. He was now satisfied with the situation.From then on the boy tended sows and piglets in the pasture, playing a little piece on the flute, to which the piglets danced. The people who came by saw the dancing piglets, and they became famous in the entire village and also in other villages as well.Now it happened that a young lady in the village heard about the dancing piglets. Early one morning she went out to the boy and asked to buy one of the piglets. The boy was not allowed to sell one without asking his master.The peasant said, "You can sell them if you get a good price."Happily the boy went back out to the pasture."The young lady asked, "What will you take for one of the piglets?""One hundred thalers, and then you'll have to lift your skirts up to your knees."At first she did not want to do this, but finally she did lift her skirts up to her knees."This boy knows a lot," she thought.Then the young lady took her piglet home with her and put it in the stall. The pig girl was to keep watch over it and report when it began to dance. A whole day passed, but the piglet did not dance.The young lady thought, "If I had two of them, then they would dance for sure."So she went to the boy and asked how much a second piglet would cost."Two hundred thalers, and lift your skirts up to your waist."She did not want to do this, but the boy said, "I'll not sell the piglet for any other price."She thought, "This boy knows how to shame a girl," but she did what he asked, then gave him two hundred thalers, and took the piglet home with her.She thought that the two piglets would dance, but they did not.On the third day she went once again to the boy and said that it was not true, that the piglets could dance. but the boy said that they could indeed. So then she thought that if she had all three they would dance, and she asked how much the boy wanted for the third piglet.He said, "Three hundred thalers, and lift your skirt above your navel."She did not want to do this, and thought about it for a long time, but finally she gave in.Now the young lady had an unusual mark: three golden hairs above her navel.When she returned home and had all three piglets together, she thought that they would dance. But they did not dance. So she sent a messenger to the boy, complaining that he had cheated her. The boy insisted, however, that they had danced for him.Then the peasant said, "Send the wooden flute to the young lady. We received a good price for the piglets."So the boy gave the flute to the messenger, and asked him to tell the young lady to play a while on it, and then the piglets would dance for sure.When the young lady blew on the flute the pigs danced, and she was very happy, for no one else had pigs like these. And she sent a generous tip to the boy.Some months later the young lady announced that she wanted to marry. She would give a feast and invite all the young gentlemen. She proclaimed that she would marry the one who could guess what her unusual mark was.On the appointed day all the suitors sat around the table eating and drinking.The boy had heard about this, and he sneaked into a corner. Beforehand he supplied himself with some peppermint drops, thinking that no one would offer him anything to eat.After dinner the guessing began, but no one could identify the young lady's mark. A half hour pause was declared to give everyone time to think. They continued with the guessing, but no one was right. And after a third round of guessing, still no one succeeded.Finally the boy shouted out, "I know what the young lady's mark is!""Out with it! What is it?" said everyone."She has three golden hairs above her navel."Then they asked the young lady if this was true. She had to admit that it was so, but she did not want to marry the boy instead of one of the young gentlemen.Then they had to decide how to settle the dispute. One said one thing. another said something else, and finally they decided to     Now I am not allowed to say what happened next, but in the end the boy did indeed get the young lady, and he became her gentleman.