coast of the island, I observed at some distance in the sea somethingthat looked like a boat overturned. I pulled off my shoes and stockings,and wading two or three hundred yards, I plainly saw it to be a realboat, which I supposed might by some tempest have been driven from aship. I returned immediately to the city for help, and after a hugeamount of labor I managed to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu,where a great crowd of people appeared, full of wonder at sight of soprodigious a vessel. I told the Emperor that my good fortune had thrownthis boat in my way to carry me to some place whence I might return tomy native country, and begged his orders for materials to fit it up, andleave to depart which, after many kindly speeches, he was pleased togrant.Meanwhile the Emperor of Lilliput, uneasy at my long absence (but neverimagining that I had the least notice of his designs), sent a person ofrank to inform the Emperor of Blefuscu of my disgrace. this messengerhad orders to represent the great mercy of his master, who was contentto punish me with the loss of my eyes, and who expected that his brotherof Blefuscu would have me sent back to Lilliput, bound hand and foot,to be punished as a traitor. The Emperor of Blefuscu answered with manycivil excuses. He said that as for sending me bound, his brother knewit was impossible. Moreover, though I had taken away his fleet he wasgrateful to me for many good offices I had done him in making the peace.But that both their Majesties would soon be made easy. for I had founda prodigious vessel on the shore, able to carry me on the sea, whichhe had given orders to fit up. and he hoped in a few weeks both empireswould be free from me.With this answer the messenger returned to Lilliput. and I (though themonarch of Blefuscu secretly offered me his gracious protection if Iwould continue in his service) hastened my departure, resolving nevermore to put confidence in princes.In about a month I was ready to take leave. The Emperor of Blefuscu,with the Empress and the royal family, came out of the palace. and I laydown on my face to kiss their hands, which they graciously gave me. HisMajesty presented me with fifty purses of sprugs (their greatest goldcoin) and his picture at full length, which I put immediately into oneof my gloves, to keep it from being hurt. Many other ceremonies tookplace at my departure.I stored the boat with meat and drink, and took six cows and two bullsalive, with as many ewes and rams, intending to carry them into my owncountry. and to feed them on board, I had a good bundle of hay and a bagof corn. I would gladly have taken a dozen of the natives. but this wasa thing the Emperor would by no means permit, and besides a diligentsearch into my pockets, his Majesty pledged my honor not to carry awayany of his subjects, though with their own consent and desire.Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able, I set sail. WhenI had made twenty four leagues, by my reckoning, from the island ofBlefuscu, I saw a sail steering to the northeast. I hailed her, butcould get no answer. yet I found I gained upon her, for the windslackened. and in half an hour she spied me, and discharged a gun. Icame up with her between five and six in the evening, Sept. 26, 1701.but my heart leaped within me to see her English colors. I put my cowsand sheep into my coat pockets, and got on board with all my littlecargo. The captain received me with kindness, and asked me to tell himwhat place I came from last. but at my answer he thought I was raving.However, I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket, which, aftergreat astonishment, clearly convinced him.We arrived in England on the 13th of April, 1702. I stayed two monthswith my wife and family. but my eager desire to see foreign countrieswould suffer me to remain no longer. However, while in England I madegreat profit by showing my cattle to persons of quality and others. andbefore I began my second voyage I sold them for 600_l_. I left 1500_l_.with my wife, and fixed her in a good house. then taking leave of herand my boy and girl, with tears on both sides, I sailed on board the"Adventure." (1)(1) Swift.