There was once a poor peasant who sat in the evening by the hearth andpoked the fire, and his wife sat and span. Then said he, "How sad it isthat we have no children! With us all is so quiet, and in other housesit is noisy and lively.""Yes," replied the wife, and sighed, "even if we had only one, and itwere quite small, and only as big as a thumb, I should be quitesatisfied, and we would still love it with all our hearts." Now it sohappened that their wish was granted and a child was given them, butalthough it was perfect in all its limbs, it was no longer than a thumb.Then said they, "It is as we wished it to be, and it shall be our dearchild." and because of its size, they called it Thumbling. They did notlet it want for food, but the child did not grow taller, but remained asit had been at the first, nevertheless it looked sensibly out of itseyes, and soon showed itself to be a wise and nimble creature, foreverything it did turned out well.One day the peasant was getting ready to go into the forest to cut wood,when he said as if to himself, "How I wish that there was any one whowould bring the cart to me!" "Oh, father," cried Thumbling, "I will soonbring the cart. rely on that. it shall be in the forest at the appointedtime." The man smiled and said, "How can that be done. you are far toosmall to lead the horse by the reins?" "That's of no consequence,father, if my mother will only harness it, I will sit in the horse'sear, and call out to him how he is to go." "Well," answered the man,"for once we will try it."When the time came, the mother harnessed the horse, and placed Thumblingin its ear, and then the little creature cried, "Gee up, gee up!"Then it went quite properly as if with its master, and the cart went theright way into the forest. It so happened that just as he was turning acorner, and the little one was crying, "Gee up," two strange men cametowards him. "My word!" said one of them. "What is this? There is a cartcoming, and a driver is calling to the horse, and still he is not to beseen!" "That can't be right," said the other, "we will follow the cartand see where it stops." The cart, however, drove right into the forest,and exactly to the place where the wood had been cut. When Thumbling sawhis father, he cried to him, "See, father, here I am with the cart. nowtake me down." The father got hold of the horse with his left hand, andwith the right took his little son out of the ear. Thumbling sat downquite merrily on a straw, but when the two strange men saw him, they didnot know what to say for astonishment. Then one of them took the otheraside and said, "Hark, the little fellow would make our fortune if weexhibited him in a large town, for money. We will buy him." They went tothe peasant and said, "Sell us the little man. He shall be well treatedwith us." "No," replied the father, "he is the apple of my eye, and allthe money in the world cannot buy him from me." Thumbling, however, whenhe heard of the bargain, had crept up the folds of his father's coat,placed himself on his shoulder, and whispered in his ear. "Father, dogive me away. I will soon come back again." Then the father parted withhim to the two men for a handsome bit of money. "Where do you want tosit?" they said to him. "Oh, just set me on the rim of your hat, andthen I can walk backwards and forwards and look at the country, andstill not fall down." They did as he wished, and when Thumbling hadtaken leave of his father, they went away with him. They walked until itwas dusk, and then the little fellow said, "Do take me down. I want tocome down." The man took his hat off, and put the little fellow on theground by the wayside, and he leapt and crept about a little between thesods, and then he suddenly slipped into a mouse hole which he had soughtout. "Good evening, gentlemen, just go home without me," he cried tothem, and mocked them. They ran thither and stuck their sticks into themouse hole, but it was all lost labor. Thumbling crept still farther in,and as it soon became quite dark, they were forced to go home with theirvexation and their empty purses.When Thumbling saw that they were gone, he crept back out of thesubterranean passage. "It is so dangerous to walk on the ground in thedark," said he. "how easily a neck or a leg is broken!" Fortunately, heknocked against an empty snail shell. "Thank God!" said he. "In that Ican pass the night in safety," and got into it. Not long afterwards,when he was just going to sleep, he heard two men go by, and one of themwas saying, "How shall we contrive to get hold of the rich pastor'ssilver and gold?" "I could tell you that," cried Thumbling, interruptingthem. "What was that?" said one of the thieves in a fright. "I heardsome one speaking." They stood still listening, and Thumbling spokeagain and said, "Take me with you, and I'll help you.""But where are you?" "Just look on the ground, and observe from where myvoice comes," he replied. There the thieves at length found him, andlifted him up. "You little imp, how will you help us?" they said. "Agreat deal," said he. "I will creep into the pastor's room through theiron bars, and will reach out to you whatever you want to have." "Come,then," they said, "and we will see what you can do." When they got tothe pastor's house, Thumbling crept into the room, but instantly criedout with all his might, "Do you want to have everything that is here?"The thieves were alarmed, and said, "But do speak softly, so as not towaken any one!" Thumbling, however, behaved as if he had not understoodthis, and cried again, "What do you want? Do you want to have everythingthat is here?" The cook, who slept in the next room, heard this and satup in bed, and listened. The thieves, however, had in their fright runsome distance away, but at last they took courage, and thought, "Thelittle rascal wants to mock us." They came back and whispered to him,"Come, be serious, and reach something out to us." Then Thumbling againcried as loudly as he could, "I really will give you everything, onlyput your hands in." The maid who was listening, heard this quitedistinctly, and jumped out of bed and rushed to the door. The thievestook flight, and ran as if the Wild Huntsman were behind them, but asthe maid could not see anything, she went to strike a light. When shecame to the place with it, Thumbling, unperceived, hid himself in thegranary, and the maid, after she had examined every corner and foundnothing, lay down in her bed again, and believed that, after all, shehad only been dreaming with open eyes and ears.Thumbling had climbed up among the hay and found a beautiful place tosleep in: there he intended to rest until day, and then go home again tohis parents. But he had other things to go through. Truly there is muchaffliction and misery in this world! When day dawned, the maid arosefrom her bed to feed the cows. Her first walk was into the barn, whereshe laid hold of an armful of hay, and precisely that very one in whichpoor Thumbling was lying asleep. He, however, was sleeping so soundlythat he was aware of nothing, and did not awake until he was in themouth of the cow, who had picked him up with the hay. "Ah, heavens!"cried he, "how have I got into the fulling mill?" but he soon discoveredwhere he was. Then it was necessary to be careful not to let himself gobetween the teeth and be dismembered, but he was nevertheless forced toslip down into the stomach with the hay. "In this little room thewindows are forgotten," said he, "and no sun shines in, neither will acandle be brought." His quarters were especially unpleasing to him, andthe worst was, more and more hay was always coming in by the door, andthe space grew less and less. Then, at length in his anguish, he criedas loud as he could, "Bring me no more fodder, bring me no more fodder."The maid was just milking the cow, and when she heard some one speaking,and saw no one, and perceived that it was the same voice that she hadheard in the night, she was so terrified that she slipped off her stool,and spilt the milk. She ran in the greatest haste to her master, andsaid, "Oh, heavens, pastor, the cow has been speaking!" "You are mad,"replied the pastor. but he went himself to the byre to see what wasthere. Hardly, however, had he set his foot inside than Thumbling againcried, "Bring me no more fodder, bring me no more fodder." Then thepastor himself was alarmed, and thought that an evil spirit had goneinto the cow, and ordered her to be killed. She was killed, but thestomach, in which Thumbling was, was thrown on the midden. Thumbling hadgreat difficulty in working his way out. however, he succeeded so far asto get some room, but, just as he was going to thrust his head out, anew misfortune occurred. A hungry wolf ran thither, and swallowed thewhole stomach at one gulp. Thumbling did not lose courage. "Perhaps,"thought he, "the wolf will listen to what I have got to say," and hecalled to him from out of his stomach, "Dear wolf, I know of amagnificent feast for you.""Where is it to be had?" said the wolf."In such and such a house. you must creep into it through thekitchen sink. you will find cakes, and bacon, and sausages, and as muchof them as you can eat," and he described to him exactly his father'shouse. The wolf did not require to be told this twice, squeezed himselfin at night through the sink, and ate to his heart's content in thelarder. When he had eaten his fill, he wanted to go out again, but hehad become so big that he could not go out by the same way. Thumblinghad reckoned on this, and now began to make a violent noise in the wolfsbody, and raged and screamed as loudly as he could. "Will you be quiet,"said the wolf. "you will waken up the people!" "Eh, what," replied thelittle fellow, "you have eaten your fill, and I will make merrylikewise," and began once more to scream with all his strength. At lasthis father and mother were aroused by it, and ran to the room and lookedin through the opening in the door. When they saw that a wolf wasinside, they ran away, and the husband fetched his axe, and the wife thescythe. "Stay behind," said the man, when they entered the room. "When Ihave given him a blow, if he is not killed by it, you must cut him downand hew his body to pieces." Then Thumbling heard his parents' voices,and cried, "Dear father, I am here. I am in the wolf's body." Said thefather, full of joy, "Thank God, our dear child has found us again," andbade the woman take away her scythe, that Thumbling might not be hurtwith it. After that he raised his arm, and struck the wolf such a blowon his head that he fell down dead, and then they got knives andscissors and cut his body open, and drew the little fellow forth. "Ah,"said the father, "what sorrow we have gone through for your sake." "Yes,father, I have gone about the world a great deal. Thank heaven, Ibreathe fresh air again!" "Where have you been, then?" "Ah, father, Ihave been in a mouse's hole, in a cow's stomach, and then in a wolf's.now I will stay with you." "And we will not sell you again. no, not forall the riches in the world," said his parents, and they embraced andkissed their dear Thumbling.