into the desert, according to my custom, to cut firewood. and, findingthere a tract with abundance of wood, I entered it, and came to a tree,around which I dug. and as I was removing the earth from its roots, theaxe struck against a ring of brass. and I cleared away the earth fromit, and found that it was affixed to a trap door of wood, which Iimmediately removed. Beneath it appeared a staircase, which I descended.and at the bottom of this I entered a door, and beheld a palace,strongly constructed, where I found a lady, like a pearl of high price,whose aspect banished from the heart all anxiety and grief andaffliction. At the sight of her I prostrated myself in adoration of herCreator for the fairness and beauty which He had displayed in herperson. and she, looking towards me, said, Art thou a man or a Jinnee? Ianswered her, I am a man. And who, she asked, hath brought thee to thisplace, in which I have lived five and twenty years without ever seeing ahuman being? Her words sounded sweetly to me, and I answered her, O mymistress, God hath brought me to thy abode, and I hope will put an endto my anxiety and grief: and I related to her my story from beginningto end. She was grieved at my case, and wept, and said, I also willacquaint thee with my story. Know that I am the daughter of the King ofthe further parts of India, the lord of the Ebony Island. My father hadmarried me to the son of my uncle. but on the night of my bridalfestivities, an 'Efreet namad Jarjarees, the son of Rejmoos, the son ofIblees, carried me off, and, soaring with me through the air, alightedin this place, to which he conveyed all things necessary for me, such asornaments, and garments, and linen, and furniture, and food, and drink.and once in every ten days he cometh to me, and spendeth a nighthere. and he hath appointed with me, that, in case of mywanting any thing by night or day, I should touch with my hand thesetwo lines which are inscribed upon the ubbeh, and as soonas I remove my hand I see him before me. Four days have now passed sincehe was last with me, and there remain, therefore, six days before hewill come again. wilt thou then remain with me five days, and depart oneday before his visit? I answered, Yes. rejoicing at the proposal. andshe arose, and taking me by the hand, conducted me through an archeddoor to a small and elegant bath, where I took off my clothes, while sheseated herself upon a mattress. After this, she seated me by her side,and brought me some sherbet of sugar infused with musk, andhanded it to me to drink: she then placed some food before me, and afterwe had eaten and conversed together, she said to me, Sleep, and restthyself. for thou art fatigued.I slept, O my mistress, and forgot all that had befallen me. and when Iawoke, I found her rubbing my feet. upon which I called toher, and we sat down again and conversed a while. and she said to me, ByAllah, I was straitened in my heart, living here alone, without anyperson to talk with me, five and twenty years. Praise be to God who hathsent thee to me. I thanked her for her kind expressions. and love ofher took possession of my heart, and my anxiety and grief fled away. Wethen sat down to drink together. and I remained by her side all thenight, delighted with her company, for I had never seen her like in mywhole life. and in the morning, when we were both full of joy, I said toher, Shall I take thee up from this subterranean place, and release theefrom the Jinnee? But she laughed, and replied, Be content, and hold thypeace. for, of every ten days, one day shall be for the 'Efreet, andnine for thee. I persisted, however, being overcome with passion: andsaid, I will this instant demolish this ubbeh upon which theinscription is engraved, and let the 'Efreet come, that I may slay him:for I am predestined to kill 'Efreets. She entreated me to refrain. but,paying no attention to her words, I kicked the ubbeh with violence.upon which she exclaimed, The 'Efreet hath arrived! Did I not cautionthee against this? Verily thou hast brought a calamity upon me. but savethyself, and ascend by the way that thou camest.In the excess of my fear I forgot my sandals and my axe, and when I hadascended two steps, turning round to look for them, I saw that theground had opened, and there rose from it an 'Efreet of hideous aspect,who said, Wherefore is this disturbance with which thou hast alarmed me,and what misfortune hath befallen thee? She answered, No misfortunehath happened to me, excepting that my heart was contracted, and Idesired to drink some wine to dilate it, and, rising to perform mypurpose, I fell against the ubbeh. Thou liest, vile woman, heexclaimed. and, looking about the palace to the right and left, he sawthe sandals and axe. and said to her, These are the property of none buta man. Who hath visited thee? I have not seen them, she answered, untilthis instant: probably they caught to thee. This language, said he, isabsurd, and will have no effect upon me, thou shameless woman! and, sosaying, he stripped her of her clothing, and tied her down, with herarms and legs extended, to four stakes, and began to beat her, urgingher to confess what had happened.For myself, being unable to endure her cries, I ascended the stairs,overpowered by fear, and, arriving at the top, replaced the trap door asit was at first, and covered it over with earth. I repented bitterly ofwhat I had done, and reflecting upon the lady and her beauty, and howthis wretch was torturing her after she had lived with him five andtwenty years, and that he tortured her only on my account, andreflecting also upon my father and his kingdom, and how I had beenreduced to the condition of a wood cutter, I repeated this verse: When fortune bringeth thee affliction, console thyself by rememberingthat one day thou must see prosperity, and another day, difficulty.Returning to my companion, the tailor, I found him awaiting my return asif he were placed in a pan upon burning coals. I past last night, saidhe, with anxious heart on thy account, fearing for thee from some wildbeast or other calamity. Praise be to God for thy safe return. Ithanked him for his tender concern for me, and entered my apartment. andas I sat meditating upon that which had befallen me, and blaming myselffor having kicked the ubbeh, my friend the tailor came in to me, andsaid, In the shop is a foreigner, who asks for thee, and he has thy axeand sandals. he came with them to the wood cutters, andsaid to them, I went out at the time of the call of the Mueddin tomorning prayer, and stumbled upon these, and know not to whom theybelong: can ye guide me to their owner? The wood cutters, therefore,directed him to thee: he is sitting in my shop. so go out to him andthank him, and take thy axe and thy sandals. On hearing these words, mycountenance turned pale, and my whole state became changed. and while Iwas in this condition, the floor of my chamber clove asunder, and thererose from it the stranger, and lo, he was the 'Efreet. he had torturedthe lady with the utmost cruelty. but she would confess nothing: so hetook the axe and the sandals, and said to her, If I am Jarjarees, of thedescendants of Iblees, I will bring the owner of this axe and thesesandals. Accordingly, he came, with the pretence before mentioned, tothe wood cutters, and, having entered my chamber, without granting meany delay, seized me, and soared with me through the air: he thendescended, and dived into the earth, and brought me up into the palacewhere I was before.Here I beheld the lady stripped of her clothing, and with blood flowingfrom her sides. and tears trickled from my eyes. The 'Efreet then tookhold of her, and said, Vile woman, this is thy lover: whereupon shelooked at me, and replied, I know him not, nor have I ever seen himuntil this instant. The 'Efreet said to her, With all this torture wiltthou not confess? She answered, Never in my life have I seen him before,and it is not lawful in the sight of God that I should speak falselyagainst him. Then, said he, if thou know him not, takethis sword and strike off his head. She took the sword, and came to me,and stood over my head: but I made a sign to her with my eyebrow, whiletears ran down my cheeks. She replied in a similar manner, Thou art hewho hath done all this to me: I made a sign to her, however, that thiswas a time for pardon, conveying my meaning in the manner thus describedby the poet: Our signal in love is the glance of our eyes. and every intelligentperson understandeth the sign.Our eyebrows carry on an intercourse between us: we are silent.but love speaketh.And when she understood me, she threw the sword from her hand, O mymistress, and the 'Efreet handed it to me, saying, Strike off her head,and I will liberate thee, and do thee no harm. I replied, Good: and,quickly approaching her, raised my hand. but she made a sign as thoughshe would say, I did no injury to thee: whereupon my eyes poured withtears, and, throwing down the sword, I said, O mighty 'Efreet, andvaliant hero, if a woman, deficient in sense and religion,seeth it not lawful to strike off my head, how is it lawful for me to doso to her, and especially when I have never seen her before in my life?I will never do it, though I should drink the cup of death anddestruction. There is affection between you, said the 'Efreet, and,taking the sword, he struck off one of the hands of the lady. then, theother. after this, her right foot. and then, her left foot: thus withfour blows he cut off her four extremities, while I looked on,expecting my own death. She then made a sign to me with her eye. and the'Efreet, observing her, exclaimed, Now thou hast been guilty ofincontinence with thine eye! and, with a blow of his sword, struck offher head. after which, he turned towards me, and said, O man, it isallowed us by our law, if a wife be guilty of incontinence, to put herto death. This woman I carried off on her wedding night, when she wastwelve years of age, and she was acquainted with no man but me. and Iused to pass one night with her in the course of every ten days in thegarb of a foreigner. and when I discovered of a certainty that she hadbeen unfaithful to me, I killed her: but as for thee, I am not convincedthat thou hast wronged me with respect to her. yet I must not leave theeunpunished: choose, therefore, what injury I shall do to thee.Upon this, O my mistress, I rejoiced exceedingly, and, eager to obtainhis pardon, I said to him, What shall I choose from thy hands? Choose,he answered, into what form I shall change thee. either the form of adog, or that of an ass, or that of an ape. I replied, in my desire offorgiveness, Verily, if thou wilt pardon me, God will pardon thee inrecompense for thy shewing mercy to a Muslim who hath done thee noinjury: and I humbled myself in the most abject manner, and said tohim, Pardon me as the envied man did the envier. And how was that? saidhe. I answered as follows: THE STORY OF THE ENVIER AND THE ENVIED.Know, O my master, that there was a certain man who had a neighbour thatenvied him. and the more this person envied him, so much the more didGod increase the prosperity of the former. Thus it continued a longtime. but when the envied man found that his neighbour persisted introubling him, he removed to a place where there was a deserted well.and there he built for himself an oratory, and occupied himself in theworship of God. Numerous Faeers assembled around him, andhe acquired great esteem, people repairing to him from every quarter,placing firm reliance upon his sanctity. and his fame reached the earsof his envious neighbour, who mounted his horse, and went to visit him.and when the envied man saw him, he saluted him, and payed him theutmost civility. The envier then said to him, I have come hither toinform thee of a matter in which thou wilt find advantage, and for whichI shall obtain a recompense in heaven. The envied man replied, May Godrequite thee for me with every blessing. Then, said the envier, orderthe Faeers to retire to their cells, for the information that I amabout to give thee I would have no one overhear. So he ordered them toenter their cells. and the envier said to him, Arise, and let us walktogether, and converse. and they walked on until they came to thedeserted well before mentioned, when the envier pushed the envied maninto this well, without the knowledge of any one, and went his way,imagining that he had killed him.But this well was inhabited by Jinn, who received him unhurt, and seatedhim upon a large stone. and when they had done this, one of them said tothe others, Do ye know this man? They answered, We know him not. This,said he, is the envied man who fled from him who envied him, and took uphis abode in this quarter, in the neighbouring oratory, and whoentertaineth us by his zikr and his readings. and when hisenvier heard of him, he came hither to him, and, devising a stratagemagainst him, threw him down here. His fame hath this night reached theSulan of this city, who hath purposed to visit him to morrow, onaccount of the affliction which hath befallen his daughter. And what,said they, hath happened to his daughter? He answered, Madness. forMeymoon, the son of Demdem, hath become inflamed with love for her. andher cure is the easiest of things. They asked him, What is it? and heanswered, The black cat that is with him in the oratory hath at the endof her tail a white spot, of the size of a piece of silver. and fromthis white spot should be taken seven hairs, and with these the damselshould be fumigated, and the Marid would depart from over her head, andnot return to her. so she would be instantly cured. And now it is ourduty to take him out.When the morning came, the Faeers saw the Sheykh rising out of thewell. and he became magnified in their eyes. And when he entered theoratory, he took from the white spot at the end of the cat's tail sevenhairs, and placed them in a portfolio by him. and at sunrise the Kingcame to him, and when the Sheykh saw him, he said to him, O King, thouhast come to visit me in order that I may cure thy daughter. The Kingreplied. Yes, O virtuous Sheykh. Then, said the Sheykh, send someperson to bring her hither. and I trust in God, whose name be exalted,that she may be instantly cured. And when the King had brought hisdaughter, the Sheykh beheld her bound, and, seating her, suspended acurtain over her, and took out the hairs, and fumigated her with them.whereupon the Marid cried out from over her head, and left her. and thedamsel immediately recovered her reason, and, veiling her face, said toher father, What is this, and wherefore didst thou bring me to thisplace? He answered her, Thou hast nothing to fear. and rejoicedgreatly. He kissed the hand of the envied Sheykh, and said to the greatmen of his court who were with him, What shall be the recompense of thisSheykh for that which he hath done? They answered, His recompense shouldbe that thou marry him to her. Ye have spoken truly, saidthe King: and he gave her in marriage to him, and thus the Sheykh becamea connection of the King. and after some days the King died, and he wasmade King in his place.And it happened one day that this envied King was riding with histroops, and he saw his envier approaching. and when this man came beforehim he seated him upon a horse with high distinction and honour, and,taking him to his palace, gave him a thousand pieces of gold, and acostly dress. after which he sent him back from the city, withattendants to escort him to his house, and reproached him fornothing. Consider, then, O 'Efreet, the pardon of the envied to theenvier, and his kindness to him, notwithstanding the injuries he haddone him.CONTINUATION OF THE STORY OF THE SECOND ROYAL MENDICANT.The 'Efreet, when he had heard this story, replied, Lengthen not thywords to me: as to my killing thee, fear it not. and as to my pardoningthee, covet it not. but as to my enchanting thee, there is no escapefrom it. and, so saying, he clove the earth asunder, and soared with methrough the sky to such a height that I beheld the world beneath me asthough it were a bowl of water: then, alighting upon a mountain, he tookup a little dust, and, having muttered and pronounced certain words overit, sprinkled me with it, saying, Quit this form, and take the form ofan ape! whereupon I became like an ape of a hundred years of age.When I saw myself changed into this ugly form, I wept for myself, butdetermined to be patient under the tyranny of fortune, knowing it to beconstant to no one. I descended from the summit of the mountain, and,after having journeyed for the space of a month, arrived at thesea shore. and, when I had stood there a short time, I saw a vessel inthe midst of the sea, with a favourable wind approaching the land. Itherefore hid myself behind a rock on the beach, and when the ship cameclose up, I sprang into the midst of it. But as soon as the persons onboard saw me, one of them cried, Turn out this unlucky brute from theship: another said, Let us kill him: and a third exclaimed, I willkill him with this sword. I, however, caught hold of the end of thesword, and tears flowed from my eyes. at the sight of which the captaintook compassion on me, and said to the passengers, O merchants, this apehath sought my aid, and I give it him. he is under my protection. let noone, therefore, oppose or trouble him. He then treated me with kindness,and whatever he said to me I understood, and all that he required to bedone I performed as his servant.We continued our voyage for fifty days with a fair wind, and cast anchorunder a large city containing a population which no one but God, whosename be exalted, could reckon. and when we had moored our vessel, therecame to us some memlooks from the King of the city, who came on boardthe ship, and complimented the merchants on their safe arrival, saying,Our King greeteth you, rejoicing in your safety, and hath sent to youthis roll of paper, desiring that each of you shall write a line uponit. for the King had a Wezeer who was an eminent caligraphist, and he isdead, and the King hath sworn that he will not appoint any person to hisoffice who cannot write equally well. Though in the form ofan ape, I arose and snatched the paper from their hands. upon which,fearing that I would tear it and throw it into the sea, they cried outagainst me, and would have killed me. but I made signs to them that Iwould write, and the captain said to them, Suffer him to write, and ifhe scribble we will turn him away. but if he write well I will adopt himas my son. for I have never seen a more intelligent ape. So I took thepen, and demanded the ink, and wrote in an epistolary hand thiscouplet: Fame hath recorded the virtues of the noble. but no one hath beenable to reckon thine.May God not deprive mankind of such a father. for thou art the parentof every excellence.Then, in a more formal, large hand, I wrote the following verses: There is no writer that shall not perish. but what his hand hathwritten endureth ever.Write, therefore, nothing but what will please thee when thou shaltsee it on the day of resurrection.Two other specimens I wrote, in two different and smaller hands, andreturned the paper to the memlooks, who took it back to the King. andwhen he saw what was written upon it, the hand of no one pleased himexcepting mine. and he said to his attendants, Go to the author of thishand writing, put upon him this dress, and mount him upon a mule, andconduct him, with the band of music before him, to my presence. Onhearing this order, they smiled. and the King was angry with them, andsaid, How is it that I give you an order, and ye laugh at me? Theyanswered, O King, we laugh not at thy words, but because he who wrotethis is an ape, and not a son of Adam: he is with the captain of theship newly arrived.The King was astonished at their words. he shook with delight, and said,I would purchase this ape. He then sent some messengers to the ship,with the mule and the dress of honour, saying to them, Ye must clothehim with this dress, and mount him upon the mule, and bring him hither.So they came to the ship, and, taking me from the captain, clad me withthe dress. and the people were astonished, and flocked to amusethemselves with the sight of me. And when they brought me to the King,and I beheld him, I kissed the ground before him three times, and heordered me to sit down: so I sat down upon my knees. andthe persons present were surprised at my polite manners, and especiallythe King, who presently ordered his people to retire. They, therefore,did so. none remaining but the King, and a eunuch, and a young memlook,and myself. The King then commanded that a repast should be brought. andthey placed before him a service of viands, such as gratified theappetite and delighted the eye. and the King made a sign to me that Ishould eat. whereupon I arose, and, having kissed the ground before himseven times, sat down to eat with him. and when the table was removed, Iwashed my hands, and, taking the ink case, and pen and paper, I wrotethese two verses: Great is my appetite for thee, O Kunafeh! I cannotbe happy nor endure without thee.Be thou every day and night my food. and may drops of honey notbe wanting to moisten thee.Having done this, I arose, and seated myself at a distance. and theKing, looking at what I had written, read it with astonishment, andexclaimed, Can an ape possess such fluency and such skill in caligraphy?This is, indeed, a wonder of wonders! Afterwards, a chess table wasbrought to the King, and he said to me, Wilt thou play? By a motion ofmy head I answered, Yes: and I advanced, and arranged thepieces. I played with him twice, and beat him. and the Kingwas perplexed, and said, Were this a man, he would surpass all thepeople of his age.He then said to his eunuch, Go to thy mistress, and say to her, Answerthe summons of the King: that she may come and gratify her curiosity bythe sight of this wonderful ape. The eunuch, therefore, went, andreturned with his mistress, the King's daughter, who, as soon as she sawme, veiled her face, and said, O my father, how is it that thou artpleased to send for me, and suffer strange men to see me? O mydaughter, answered the King, there is no one here but the young memlook,and the eunuch who brought thee up, and this ape, with myself, thyfather: from whom, then, dost thou veil thy face? This ape, said she,is the son of a King, and the name of his father is Eymar:he is enchanted, and it was the 'Efreet Jarjarees, a descendant ofIblees, who transformed him, after having slain his own wife, thedaughter of King Anamoos. This, whom thou supposedst to be an ape, is alearned and wise man. The King was amazed at his daughter's words, and,looking towards me, said, Is it true that she saith of thee? I answered,by a motion of my head, Yes: and wept. The King then said to hisdaughter, By what means didst thou discover that he was enchanted? O myfather, she answered, I had with me, in my younger years, an old womanwho was a cunning enchantress, and she taught me the art of enchantment:I have committed its rules to memory, and know it thoroughly, beingacquainted with a hundred and seventy modes of performing it, by theleast of which I could transport the stones of thy city beyond Mountaf, and make its site to be an abyss of the sea, and convert itsinhabitants into fish in the midst of it. I conjure thee, then, by thename of Allah, said her father, to restore this young man, that I maymake him my Wezeer. Is it possible that thou possessedst thisexcellence, and I knew it not? Restore him, that I may make him myWezeer, for he is a polite and intelligent youth.