CologneEulenspiegel journeyed to Cologne, where he stayed at an inn for two orthree days without letting anyone know who he was. During this time henoticed that the innkeeper was a rogue, and he thought, "The guests willnot be well off where the innkeeper is a rogue. You should find anotherplace to stay."That evening he told the innkeeper that he would be looking for anotherplace to stay. The latter showed the other guests to their beds, but notEulenspiegel, who then said, "Sir, I paid just as much for my lodging asthe others did, but you showed them to their beds. Am I supposed to sleephere on this bench?"The innkeeper said, "Look! Here is a pair of sheets!" and he let afart. Then he let another one and said, "Look! This is your pillow!" Thenfor a third time he let one, until it stank, and he said, "Look! Now youhave an entire bed! Use them until morning, and then lay them in a pilefor me, so I can find everything together!"Eulenspiegel said nothing, but thought, "Look! Take note that one roguedeserves another rogue." And that night he slept on the bench.Now the innkeeper had a nice folding table. Eulenspiegel opened up theleaves, shit a large pile on the table, and then closed it up again. Hegot up early in the morning, went to the innkeeper's room and said, "Sir,I thank you for the night's lodging." Then letting a large fart, he said,"Those are the feathers from your bed. I laid the pillow, the sheets, andthe covers all together in a pile."The innkeeper said, "Sir, that is good. I will look after them as soonas I get up."Eulenspiegel said, "Do that! Just look around. You'll find them allright!" And with that he left the inn.The innkeeper expected many guests for the noon meal, and he said thatthey should eat at the nice folding table. When he opened up the table, anevil stink flew up his nose. Seeing the dung, he said, "He gives what wasearned. He paid for a fart with shit."Then the innkeeper sent for Eulenspiegel, because he wanted to get toknow him better. Eulenspiegel did indeed come back, and he and theinnkeeper appreciated one another's tricks so much, that from this timeforth Eulenspiegel got a good bed.