Once upon a time there was a woman, and she baked five pies. And whenthey came out of the oven, they were that overbaked the crusts were toohard to eat.So she says to her daughter: "Darter," says she, "put you them there pieson the shelf, and leave 'em there a little, and they'll come again."  She meant, you know, the crust would get soft.But the girl, she says to herself: "Well, if they'll come again, I'll eat'em now." And she set to work and ate 'em all, first and last.Well, come supper time the woman said: "Go you, and get one o' them therepies. I dare say they've come again now."The girl went and she looked, and there was nothing but the dishes. soback she came, and says she: "Noo, they ain't come again.""Not one of 'em?" says the mother."Not one of 'em," says she."Well, come again, or not come again," said the woman, "I'll have one forsupper.""But you can't, if they ain't come," said the girl."But I can," says she. "Go you, and bring the best of 'em."Best or worst," says the girl, "I've ate 'em all, and you can't have onetill that's come again."Well, the woman she was done, and she took her spinning to the door tospin, and as she span she sang:My darter ha' ate five, five pies today.My darter ha' ate five, five pies today.The king was coming down the street, and he heard her sing, but what shesang he couldn't hear, so he stopped and said: "What was that you weresinging, my good woman?"The woman was ashamed to let him hear what her daughter had been doing, soshe sang, instead of that:My darter ha' spun five, five skeins today.My darter ha' spun five, five skeins today."Stars o' mine!" said the king, "I never heard tell of anyone that coulddo that."Then he said: "Look you here, I want a wife, and I'll marry your daughter.But look you here," says he, "eleven months out of the year she shall haveall she likes to eat, and all the gowns she likes to get, and all thecompany she likes to keep. but the last month of the year she'll have tospin five skeins every day, and if she don't, I shall kill her.""All right," says the woman. for she thought what a grand marriage thatwas. And as for the five skeins, when the time came, there'd be plenty ofways of getting out of it, and likeliest, he'd have forgotten all aboutit.Well, so they were married. And for eleven months the girl had all sheliked to eat, and all the gowns she liked to get, and all the company sheliked to keep.But when the time was getting over, she began to think about the skeinsand to wonder if he had 'em in mind. But not one word did he say about'em, and she thought he'd wholly forgotten 'em.However, the last day of the last month he takes her to a room she'd neverset eyes on before. There was nothing in it but a spinning wheel and astool And says he: "Now, my dear, here you'll be shut in tomorrow withsome victuals and some flax, and if you haven't spun five skeins by thenight, your head'll go off."And away he went about his business.Well, she was that frightened, she'd always been such a gatless(careless) girl, that she didn't so much asknow how to spin, and what was she to do tomorrow with no one to come nighher to help her? She sat down on a stool in the kitchen, and law! how shedid cry!However, all of a sudden she heard a sort of a knocking low down on thedoor. She upped and oped it, and what should she see but a small littleblack thing with a long tail.That looked up at her right curious, and that said: "What are you a cryingfor?""What's that to you?:" says she."Never you mind," that said, "but tell me what you're a crying for.""That won't do me no good if I do," says she."You don't know that," that said, and twirled that's tail round."well," says she, "that won't do no harm, if that don't do no good," andshe upped and told about the pies, and the skeins, and everything."This is what I'll do," says the little black thing, "I'll come to yourwindow every morning and take the flax and bring it spun at night.""What's your pay?" says she.That looked out the corner of that's eyes, and that said: "I'll give youthree guesses every night to guess my name, and if you haven't guessed itbefore the month's up, you shall be mine.Well, she thought she'd be sure to guess that's name before the month wasup. "All right," says she, "I agree.""All right," that says, and law! how that twirled that's tail.Well, the next day, her husband took her into the room, and there was theflax and the day's food."Now there's the flax," says he, and if that ain't spun up this night, offgoes your head." And then he went out and locked the door.He'd hardly gone, when there was a knocking against the window.She upped and she oped it, and there sure enough was the little old thingsitting on the ledge."Where's the flax?" says he."Here it be," says she. And she gave it to him.Well, come the evening a knocking came again to the window. She upped andshe oped it, and there was the little old thing with five skeins of flaxon his arm."Here it be," says he, and he have it to her."Now, what's my name" says he.What, is that Bill?" says she."Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail."Is that Ned?" says she."Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail."Well, is that Mark?" says she."Noo, that ain't," says he, and he twirled his tail harder, and away heflew.Well, when her husband came in, there were the five skeins ready for him."I see I shan't have to kill you tonight, my dear," says her. "you'll haveyour food and your flax in the morning," says he, and away he goes.Well every day the flax and the food were brought, and every day thatthere little black impet used to come mornings and evenings. And all theday the girl sate trying to think of names to say to it what it came atnight. But she never hit on the right one. And as it got towards the endof the month, the impet began to look so maliceful, and that twirledthat's tail faster and faster each time she gave a guess.At last it came to the last day but one. The impet came at night alongwith the five skeins, and that said:"What, ain't you got my name yet?""Is that Nicodemus?" says she."Noo, 'tain't," that says."Is that Sammle?" says she."Noo, 'tain't," that says."A well, is that Methusalem?" says she."Noo, 'tain't that neither," that says.Then that looks at her with that's eyes like a coal o' fire, and thatsays: "Woman, there's only tomorrow night, and then you'll be mine?" Andaway it flew.Well, she felt that horrid. However, she heard the king coming along thepassage.In he came, and when he sees the five skeins, he says, says he: "Well, mydear," says he. "I don't see but what you'll have your skeins readytomorrow night as well, and as I reckon I shan't have to kill you, I'llhave supper in here tonight." So they brought supper, and another stoolfor him, and down the two sate.Well, he hadn't eaten but a mouthful or so, when he stops and begins tolaugh."What is it?" says she."A why," says he, I was out a hunting today, and I got away to a place inthe wood I'd never seen before. And there was an old chalk pit. And Iheard a kind of a sort of a humming. So I got off my hobby, and I wentright quiet to the pit, and I looked down. Well, what should there be butthe funniest little black thing you ever set eyes on. And what was thatdoing but that had a little spinning wheel, and that was spinningwonderful fast, and twirling that's tail. And as that span that sang:Nimmy nimmy notMy name's Tom Tit Tot.Well, when the girl heard this, she felt as if she could have jumped outher skin for joy, but she didn't say a word.Next day that there little thing looked so maliceful when he came for theflax. And when night came, she heard that knocking against the windowpanes. She oped the window, and that come right in on the ledge. Thatwas grinning from ear to ear, and Oo! that's tail was twirling round sofast."What's my name?" that says, as that gave her the skeins."Is that Solomon?" she says, pretending to be afeard."Noo, 'tain't," that says, and that come further into the room."Well, is that Zebedee?" says she again."Noo, 'tain't," says the impet. And then that laughed and twirled that'stail till you couldn't hardly see it."Take time, woman," that says. "next guess, and you're mine." And thatstretched out that's black hands at her.Well, she backed a step or two, and she looked at it, and then she laughedout, and says she, pointing her finger at it:Nimmy nimmy notYour name's Tom Tit Tot.Well, when that heard her, that gave an awful shriek and away that flewinto the dark, and she never saw it any more.