Once upon a time there lived a princess who was so beautiful and so goodthat everybody loved her. Her father could hardly bear her out of hissight, and he almost died of grief when, one day, she disappeared, andthough the whole kingdom was searched through and through, she couldnot be found in any corner of it. In despair, the king ordered aproclamation to be made that whoever could bring her back to the palaceshould have her for his wife. This made the young men start afresh onthe search, but they were no more successful than before, and returnedsorrowfully to their homes.Now there dwelt, not far from the palace, an old man who had three sons.The two eldest were allowed by their parents to do just as they liked,but the youngest was always obliged to give way to his brothers. Whenthey were all grown up, the eldest told his father that he was tiredof leading such a quiet life, and that he meant to go away and see theworld.The old people were very unhappy at the thought that they must part withhim, but they said nothing, and began to collect all that he wouldwant for his travels, and were careful to add a pair of new boots. Wheneverything was ready, he bade them farewell, and started merrily on hisway.For some miles his road lay through a wood, and when he left it hesuddenly came out on a bare hillside. Here he sat down to rest, andpulling out his wallet prepared to eat his dinner.He had only eaten a few mouthfuls when an old man badly dressed passedby, and seeing the food, asked if the young man could not spare him alittle.'Not I, indeed!' answered he. 'why I have scarcely enough for myself. Ifyou want food you must earn it.' And the beggar went on.After the young man had finished his dinner he rose and walked on forseveral hours, till he reached a second hill, where he threw himselfdown on the grass, and took some bread and milk from his wallet. Whilehe was eating and drinking, there came by an old man, yet more wretchedthan the first, and begged for a few mouthfuls. But instead of food heonly got hard words, and limped sadly away.Towards evening the young man reached an open space in the wood, and bythis time he thought he would like some supper. The birds saw the food,and flew round his head in numbers hoping for some crumbs, but he threwstones at them, and frightened them off. Then he began to wonder wherehe should sleep. Not in the open space he was in, for that was bare andcold, and though he had walked a long way that day, and was tired, hedragged himself up, and went on seeking for a shelter.At length he saw a deep sort of hole or cave under a great rock, andas it seemed quite empty, he went in, and lay down in a corner. Aboutmidnight he was awakened by a noise, and peeping out he beheld aterrible ogress approaching. He implored her not to hurt him, but tolet him stay there for the rest of the night, to which she consented, oncondition that he should spend the next day in doing any task which shemight choose to set him. To this the young man willingly agreed, andturned over and went to sleep again. In the morning, the ogress bade himsweep the dust out of the cave, and to have it clean before her returnin the evening, otherwise it would be the worse for him. Then she leftthe cave.The young man took the spade, and began to clean the floor of the cave,but try as he would to move it the dirt still stuck to its place. Hesoon gave up the task, and sat sulkily in the corner, wondering whatpunishment the ogress would find for him, and why she had set him to dosuch an impossible thing.He had not long to wait, after the ogress came home, before he knew whathis punishment was to be! She just gave one look at the floor of thecave, then dealt him a blow on the head which cracked his skull, andthere was an end of him.Meanwhile his next brother grew tired of staying at home, and let hisparents have no rest till they had consented that he also should begiven some food and some new boots, and go out to see the world. On hisroad, he also met the two old beggars, who prayed for a little of hisbread and milk, but this young man had never been taught to help otherpeople, and had made it a rule through his life to keep all he had tohimself. So he turned a deaf ear and finished his dinner.By and by he, too, came to the cave, and was bidden by the ogress toclean the floor, but he was no more successful than his brother, and hisfate was the same.Anyone would have thought that when the old people had only one son leftthat at least they would have been kind to him, even if they did notlove him. But for some reason they could hardly bear the sight of him,though he tried much harder to make them comfortable than his brothershad ever done. So when he asked their leave to go out into the worldthey gave it at once, and seemed quite glad to be rid of him. They feltit was quite generous of them to provide him with a pair of new bootsand some bread and milk for his journey.Besides the pleasure of seeing the world, the youth was very anxious todiscover what had become of his brothers, and he determined to trace, asfar as he could, the way that they must have gone. He followed the roadthat led from his father's cottage to the hill, where he sat down torest, saying to himself: 'I am sure my brothers must have stopped here,and I will do the same.'He was hungry as well as tired, and took out some of the food hisparents had given him. He was just going to begin to eat when the oldman appeared, and asked if he could not spare him a little. The youngman at once broke off some of the bread, begging the old man to sit downbeside him, and treating him as if he was an old friend. At last thestranger rose, and said to him: 'If ever you are in trouble call me, andI will help you. My name is Tritill.' Then he vanished, and the youngman could not tell where he had gone.However, he felt he had now rested long enough, and that he had betterbe going his way. At the next hill he met with the second old man, andto him also he gave food and drink. And when this old man had finishedhe said, like the first: 'If you ever want help in the smallest thingcall to me. My name is Litill.'The young man walked on till he reached the open space in the wood,where he stopped for dinner. In a moment all the birds in the worldseemed flying round his head, and he crumbled some of his bread forthem and watched them as they darted down to pick it up. When they hadcleared off every crumb the largest bird with the gayest plumage said tohim: 'If you are in trouble and need help say, "My birds, come to me!"and we will come.' Then they flew away.Towards evening the young man reached the cave where his brothers hadmet their deaths, and, like them, he thought it would be a good placeto sleep in. Looking round, he saw some pieces of the dead men's clothesand of their bones. The sight made him shiver, but he would not moveaway, and resolved to await the return of the ogress, for such he knewshe must be.Very soon she came striding in, and he asked politely if she would givehim a night's lodging. She answered as before, that he might stay oncondition that he should do any work that she might set him to nextmorning. So the bargain being concluded, the young man curled himself upin his corner and went to sleep.The dirt lay thicker than ever on the floor of the cave when the youngman took the spade and began his work. He could not clear it any morethan his brothers had done, and at last the spade itself stuck inthe earth so that he could not pull it out. The youth stared at itin despair, then the old beggar's words flashed into his mind, and hecried: 'Tritill, Tritill, come and help me!'And Tritill stood beside him and asked what he wanted. The youth toldhim all his story, and when he had finished, the old man said: 'Spadeand shovel do your duty,' and they danced about the cave till, in ashort time, there was not a speck of dust left on the floor. As soon asit was quite clean Tritill went his way.With a light heart the young man awaited the return of the ogress. Whenshe came in she looked carefully round, and then said to him: 'You didnot do that quite alone. However, as the floor is clean I will leaveyour head on.'The following morning the ogress told the young man that he must takeall the feathers out of her pillows and spread them to dry in the sun.But if one feather was missing when she came back at night his headshould pay for it.'The young man fetched the pillows, and shook out all the feathers, andoh! what quantities of them there were! He was thinking to himself,as he spread them out carefully, how lucky it was that the sun was sobright and that there was no wind, when suddenly a breeze sprang up,and in a moment the feathers were dancing high in the air. At first theyouth tried to collect them again, but he soon found that it was no use,and he cried in despair: 'Tritill, Litill, and all my birds, come andhelp me!'He had hardly said the words when there they all were. and when thebirds had brought all the feathers back again, Tritill, and Litill, andhe, put them away in the pillows, as the ogress had bidden him. But onelittle feather they kept out, and told the young man that if the ogressmissed it he was to thrust it up her nose. Then they all vanished,Tritill, Litill, and the birds.Directly the ogress returned home she flung herself with all her weighton the bed, and the whole cave quivered under her. The pillows were softand full instead of being empty, which surprised her, but that did notcontent her. She got up, shook out the pillow cases one by one, andbegan to count the feathers that were in each. 'If one is missing I willhave your head,' said she, and at that the young man drew the featherfrom his pocket and thrust it up her nose, crying 'If you want yourfeather, here it is.''You did not sort those feathers alone,' answered the ogress calmly.'however, this time I will let that pass.'That night the young man slept soundly in his corner, and in the morningthe ogress told him that his work that day would be to slay one of hergreat oxen, to cook its heart, and to make drinking cups of its horns,before she returned home 'There are fifty oxen,' added she, 'andyou must guess which of the herd I want killed. If you guess right,to morrow you shall be free to go where you will, and you shall choosebesides three things as a reward for your service. But if you slay thewrong ox your head shall pay for it.'Left alone, the young man stood thinking for a little. Then he called:'Tritill, Litill, come to my help!'In a moment he saw them, far away, driving the biggest ox the youth hadever seen. When they drew near, Tritill killed it, Litill took out itsheart for the young man to cook, and both began quickly to turn thehorns into drinking cups. The work went merrily on, and they talkedgaily, and the young man told his friends of the payment promised himby the ogress if he had done her bidding. The old men warned him thathe must ask her for the chest which stood at the foot of her bed, forwhatever lay on the top of the bed, and for what lay under the side ofthe cave. The young man thanked them for their counsel, and Tritill andLitill then took leave of him, saying that for the present he would needthem no more.Scarcely had they disappeared when the ogress came back, and foundeverything ready just as she had ordered. Before she sat down to eat thebullock's heart she turned to the young man, and said: 'You did not dothat all alone, my friend. but, nevertheless, I will keep my word, andto morrow you shall go your way.' So they went to bed and slept tilldawn.When the sun rose the ogress awoke the young man, and called to him tochoose any three things out of her house.'I choose,' answered he, 'the chest which stands at the foot of yourbed. whatever lies on the top of the bed, and whatever is under the sideof the cave.''You did not choose those things by yourself, my friend,' said theogress. 'but what I have promised, that will I do.'And then she gave him his reward.'The thing which lay on the top of the bed' turned out to be the lostprincess. 'The chest which stood at the foot of the bed' proved full ofgold and precious stones. and 'what was under the side of the cave' hefound to be a great ship, with oars and sails that went of itself aswell on land as in the water. 'You are the luckiest man that ever wasborn,' said the ogress as she went out of the cave as usual.With much difficulty the youth put the heavy chest on his shoulders andcarried it on board the ship, the princess walking by his side. Then hetook the helm and steered the vessel back to her father's kingdom. Theking's joy at receiving back his lost daughter was so great that healmost fainted, but when he recovered himself he made the young man tellhim how everything had really happened. 'You have found her, and youshall marry her,' said the king. and so it was done. And this is the endof the story.