Once upon a time there were two brothers. one was called True, and theother Untrue. True was always upright and good towards all, but Untrue wasbad and full of lies, so that no one could believe what he said. Theirmother was a widow, and did not have much to live on. so when her sons hadgrown up, she was forced to send them away, that they might earn theirbread in the world. Each received a little knapsack with some food in it,and then they went their way.They walked until evening and then sat down by a windfall in the woods,and took out their knapsacks, for they were hungry after walking the wholeday, and thought that a bit of food would taste good."I think that you'll agree with me," said Untrue, "that we should eat outof your knapsack as long as there is anything in it, and after that we caneat from mine."Yes, True was in agreement with this, so they started to eat, but Untruestuffed himself with all the best things, while True got only the burntcrusts. The next morning they had their breakfast from True's food, andthey ate dinner from it too, and then there was nothing left in hisknapsack. They had walked until late that night, and when they were readyto eat again, True wanted to eat out from his brother's knapsack, butUntrue said "No," that this food was his, and that he had only enough forhimself."Wait! You know that you ate from my knapsack as long as there wasanything in it," said True."That is all well and good," answered Untrue. "but if you are such a foolto let others eat up your food right in front of you, then you must makethe best of it. All you can do now is to sit here and starve.""Very well," said True, "you're Untrue by name and untrue by nature. Youhave always been that way, and so you will be all the rest of your life."Now when Untrue heard this, he flew into a rage, rushed at his brother,and plucked out both of his eyes. "Now, try to see whether people areuntrue or not, you blind buzzard!" So saying, he ran away and left him.Poor True! There he went walking along and feeling his way through thethick wood. Blind and alone, he barely knew which way to turn, when all atonce he caught hold of the trunk of a great bushy linden tree. He thought,for fear of the wild beasts, that he would climb the tree and sit thereuntil the night was over."When the birds begin to sing," he said to himself, "I shall know it isday, and I can try to grope my way farther on." So he climbed up into thelinden tree. After he had sat there a little while, he heard how someonecame and began to make a stir and clatter under the tree, and soonafterward others came. When they began to greet each other, he found outit was Bruin the bear, Graylegs the wolf, Slyboots the fox, and Longearsthe hare, all of whom had come to celebrate St. John's Eve under the tree.They began to eat, drink, and be merry. When they were finished eating,they started to talk together. At last the fox said, "Let each of us tella little story while we sit here."The others had nothing against that. It would be good fun, they said, andthe bear began. for he was the leader."The King of England," said Bruin, "has such bad eyesight, he can barelysee a yard in front of him. If he would only come to this linden tree inthe morning, while the dew is still on the leaves, and would rub his eyeswith the dew, he would get back his sight as good as ever.""Very true!" said Graylegs. "And the King of England has a daughter who isdeaf and dumb. If he only knew what I know, he could soon cure her. Lastyear she went to communion. She let a crumb of the bread fall out of hermouth, and a large toad came and swallowed it down. If they would just digup the chapel floor, they would find the toad sitting right under thealtar, with the bread still sticking in his throat. If they were to cutthe toad open, and give the bread to the princess, she would be able tohear and to speak again, just like other people.""That's all very well," said the fox, "but if the King of England knewwhat I know, he would not be so badly off for water in his palace. Underthe large stone in his palace yard there is a spring of the clearest waterone could wish for, if he only knew to dig for it there.""Ah!" said the hare in a small voice. "the King of England has the finestorchard in the whole land, but it does not bear so much as a green apple,for a heavy gold chain is buried, circling the orchard three times. If hewould have it dug up, there would not be a garden like it in all hiskingdom.""Very true, I dare say," said the fox, "but now it's getting very late,and we should all go home."So they all went away together.After they were gone, True fell asleep, sitting there in the tree. Whenthe birds began to sing at dawn, he woke up, and took the dew from theleaves, and rubbed his eyes with it, and thus he got his sight back asgood as it was before Untrue plucked his eyes out.Then he went straight to the King of England's palace, and begged forwork, and got it on the spot. One day the king came out into the palaceyard, and when he had walked about a bit, he wanted to drink out of hispump. for you must know the day was hot, and the king very thirsty. butwhen they poured him out a glass, it was so muddy, and nasty, and foul,that the king got quite upset."I don't think there's ever a man in my whole kingdom who has such badwater in his yard as I, and yet I bring it in pipes from far, over hilland dale," cried out the king."True enough, your majesty." said True, "but if you would let me have somemen to help me dig up this large stone which lies here in the middle ofyour yard, you would soon see good water, and plenty of it."The king was willing enough. They barely had the stone out, and dug underit a while, before a jet of water sprang out high up into the air, asclear and full as if it came out of a conduit, and clearer water was notto be found in all England.A little while after, the king was out in his palace yard again, and therecame a great hawk flying after his chicken, and all the king's men beganto clap their hands and bawl out, "There he flies! There he flies!" Theking picked up his gun and tried to shoot the hawk, but he couldn't seethat far, so he became very upset."Would to Heaven," he said, "there was anyone who could tell me a cure formy eyes. for I think I shall soon go quite blind!""I can tell you one soon enough," said True, and he told the king what hehad done to cure his own eyes. The king set off that very afternoon to thelinden tree, and his eyes were quite cured as soon as he rubbed them withthe dew which was on the leaves in the morning. From that time forth therewas no one whom the king held so dear as True, and he had to be with himwherever he went, both at home and abroad.One day they were walking together in the orchard, and the king said, "Idon't know why, that I don't, but there isn't a man in England whospends as much on his orchard as I, and yet I can't get one of the treesto bear as much as a green apple.""Well," said True, "if I may have what is buried twisted three timesaround your orchard, and men to dig it up, your orchard will bear wellenough."Yes, the king was quite willing, so True got men and began to dig, and atlast he dug up the whole gold chain. Now True was a rich man, far richerindeed than the king himself, but still the king was well pleased, for hisorchard now bore so that the limbs of the trees hung down to the groundheavy with apples and pears sweeter than anyone had ever tasted.The king and True were walking about and talking together on another day,when the princess passed them, and the king became quite downcast when hesaw her."Isn't it a pity, now, that so lovely a princess as mine should not beable to speak or hear?" he said to True."Yes, but there is a cure for that," said True.When the king heard that, he was so glad that he promised him theprincess's hand in marriage, and half his kingdom as well, if he couldcure her. So True took a few men, and went into the church, and dug up thetoad which sat under the altar. Then he cut open the toad, took out thebread, and gave it to the king's daughter. and from that hour she got backher speech, and could talk like other people.Now True was to have the princess, and they got ready for the bridalfeast, and such a feast had never been seen before. It was the talk of thewhole land. Just as they were dancing the bridal dance, in came a beggarlad, and begged for a morsel of food, and he was so ragged and wretchedthat they all crossed themselves when they looked at him. True knew him atonce, and saw that it was Untrue, his brother."Do you recognize me?" asked True."Where would a person like me ever have seen so great a lord?" answeredUntrue."You have seen me before," said True. "I was the one whose eyes youplucked out a year ago this very day. Untrue by name, and untrue bynature. I said it before, and I am saying it now. But you are still mybrother, and so you shall have some food. After that, you may go to thelinden tree where I sat last year. If you hear anything that can do yougood, you will be lucky."Untrue did not wait to be told twice. "If True has got so much good bysitting in the linden tree, that in one year he has come to be king overhalf England, what good may I get?" he thought. So he set off and climbedup into the linden tree. He had not sat there long, before all the beastscame as before, and ate and drank, and celebrated St. John's eve under thetree. When they were finished eating, the fox wished that they shouldbegin to tell stories. Untrue got ready to listen with all his might,until his ears almost fell off.But Bruin the bear was cross. He growled and said, "Someone has beenchattering about what we said last year, and so this time we will hold ourtongues about what we know." With that the beasts wished each other a goodnight, and parted. Untrue was just as wise as he was before, and thereason was, that his name was Untrue, and his nature untrue too.