I had a gran'uncle, he was a shoemaker. he was only about 3 or 4 monthsmarried. I'm up to fourscore now. Well, God rest all their souls, for theyare all gone, I hope to a better world!Well, sir, he says to his wife, and a purty girl she was, as I hear umsay,   the fortune wasn't very big but 'twould buy him a good bit ofleather, and I might tell you, 'twas all brogues that was worn at thetime, and faith, you should be big before you would get them same.Howisever, he started one day for Limerick would (with) and ass and car,to bring home leather and other little things he wanted. He did not returnthat night or the next, nor the next. Begor, the wife and some frinds wentto Limerick next day, but no trace of the husband could be found. I forgotto tell you that the third morning after he was gone the wife rose veryearly, and there at the dure (door) was the ass and car. The whole countrywas searched, up high and low down, but no trace. Weeks, monts and yearscame and went, but he never turned up.Now the wife kept on a little business, sellin' nick nacks to supportherself, and a son, that grew to be a fine strapping man, as I hear umsay, the picture of his father.Now, sir, the boy was in or about twenty, when one day, himself and hismother were atin' their dinner, whin in comes a man and says, "God saveye!""And you too," says the mother. "Will you ate a spud, sir?" says she.He rached for the spud, and in doin' so the sleeve of his coat shortned ashe reached out his hand. He had a mole on his wrist and she see it, andher husband had one in the same spot."Good God!" says she, "are you John M'Namara?"   for that was his name."I am," says he, "and your husband, and that's my son, but I can't tellyou for some time where I was since I left you. But some time I might havethe power, but not now."Well, lo and behold you, in a week's time he started to work, and theboots he made were a surprise to the whole country round, and I believe helived for nine or ten years ater that, but he never tould her or any onewhere he was, but of course everbody knew that 'twas wood (with) the goodpeople.