There lived once, near Tis Lake, two lonely people, who were sadlyplagued with a changeling, given them by the underground people instead oftheir own child, which had not been baptized in time.This changeling behaved in a very strange and uncommon manner, for whenthere was no one in the place, he was in great spirits, ran up the wallslike a cat, sat under the roof, and shouted and bawled away lustily. butsat dozing at the end of the table when anyone was in the room withhim.He was able to eat as much as any four, and never cared what it wasthat was set before him. but though he regarded not the quality of hisfood, in quantity he was never satisfied, and gave excessive annoyance toeveryone in the house.When they had tried for a long time in vain how they could best get ridof him since there was no living in the house with him, a smart girlpledged herself that she would banish him from the house. She accordingly,while he was out in the fields, took a pig and killed it, and put it,hide, hair, and all, into a black pudding, and set it before him when hecame home.He began, as was his custom, to gobble it up, but when he had eaten forsome time, he began to relax a little in his efforts, and at last he satquite still, with his knife in his hand, looking at the pudding. Atlength, after sitting for some time in this manner, he began: "A puddingwith hide! And a pudding with legs in it! Well, three times have I seen ayoung wood by Tis Lake, but never yet did I see such a pudding! The devilhimself may stay here now for me!"So saying, he ran off with himself, and never more came back again.Another changeling was got rid of in the following manner:The mother, suspecting it to be such from its refusing food, and being so ill thriven,heated the oven as hot as possible. The maid, as instructed, asked her whyshe did it."To burn my child in it to death," was the reply.When the question had been put and answered three times, she placed thechild on the peel, and was shoving it into the oven, when the troll womancame in a great fright with the real child, and took away her own, saying,"There's your child for you. I have treated it better than you treatedmine," and in truth it was fat and hearty.