country of mountains, whose steep and rocky sides are overgrown withforest trees. Let us climb to the dazzling snow fields at theirsummits, and descend again to the green meadows beneath, through whichrivers and brooks rush along as if they could not quickly enough reachthe sea and vanish. Fiercely shines the sun over those deep valleys,as well as upon the heavy masses of snow which lie on the mountains.During the year these accumulations thaw or fall in the rollingavalance, or are piled up in shining glaciers. Two of these glacierslie in the broad, rocky cliffs, between the Schreckhorn and theWetterhorn, near the little town of Grindelwald. They are wonderful tobehold, and therefore in the summer time strangers come here fromall parts of the world to see them. They cross snow covered mountains,and travel through the deep valleys, or ascend for hours, higher andstill higher, the valleys appearing to sink lower and lower as theyproceed, and become as small as if seen from an air balloon. Overthe lofty summits of these mountains the clouds often hang like a darkveil. while beneath in the valley, where many brown, wooden houses arescattered about, the bright rays of the sun may be shining upon alittle brilliant patch of green, making it appear almosttransparent. The waters foam and dash along in the valleys beneath.the streams from above trickle and murmur as they fall down therocky mountain's side, looking like glittering silver bands.On both sides of the mountain path stand these little woodenhouses. and, as within, there are many children and many mouths tofeed, each house has its own little potato garden. These children rushout in swarms, and surround travellers, whether on foot or incarriages. They are all clever at making a bargain. They offer forsale the sweetest little toy houses, models of the mountain cottagesin Switzerland. Whether it be rain or sunshine, these crowds ofchildren are always to be seen with their wares.About twenty years ago, there might be seen occasionally, standingat a short distance from the other children, a little boy, who wasalso anxious to sell his curious wares. He had an earnest,expressive countenance, and held the box containing his carved toystightly with both hands, as if unwilling to part with it. Hisearnest look, and being also a very little boy, made him noticed bythe strangers. so that he often sold the most, without knowing why. Anhour's walk farther up the ascent lived his grandfather, who cut andcarved the pretty little toy houses. and in the old man's room stood alarge press, full of all sorts of carved things nut crackers,knives and forks, boxes with beautifully carved foliage, leapingchamois. It contained everything that could delight the eyes of achild. But the boy, who was named Rudy, looked with still greaterpleasure and longing at some old fire arms which hung upon therafters, under the ceiling of the room. His grandfather promised himthat he should have them some day, but that he must first grow big andstrong, and learn how to use them. Small as he was, the goats wereplaced in his care, and a good goat keeper should also be a goodclimber, and such Rudy was. he sometimes, indeed, climbed higherthan the goats, for he was fond of seeking for birds' nests at the topof high trees. he was bold and daring, but was seldom seen to smile,excepting when he stood by the roaring cataract, or heard thedescending roll of the avalanche. He never played with the otherchildren, and was not seen with them, unless his grandfather senthim down to sell his curious workmanship. Rudy did not much liketrade. he loved to climb the mountains, or to sit by his grandfatherand listen to his tales of olden times, or of the people in Meyringen,the place of his birth."In the early ages of the world," said the old man, "thesepeople could not be found in Switzerland. They are a colony from thenorth, where their ancestors still dwell, and are called Swedes."This was something for Rudy to know, but he learnt more from othersources, particularly from the domestic animals who belonged to thehouse. One was a large dog, called Ajola, which had belonged to hisfather. and the other was a tom cat. This cat stood very high inRudy's favor, for he had taught him to climb."Come out on the roof with me," said the cat. and Rudy quiteunderstood him, for the language of fowls, ducks, cats, and dogs, isas easily understood by a young child as his own native tongue. But itmust be at the age when grandfather's stick becomes a neighinghorse, with head, legs, and tail. Some children retain these ideaslater than others, and they are considered backwards and childishfor their age. People say so. but is it so?"Come out on the roof with me, little Rudy," was the first thinghe heard the cat say, and Rudy understood him. "What people sayabout falling down is all nonsense," continued the cat. "you willnot fall, unless you are afraid. Come, now, set one foot here andanother there, and feel your way with your fore feet. Keep your eyeswide open, and move softly, and if you come to a hole jump over it,and cling fast as I do." And this was just what Rudy did. He was oftenon the sloping roof with the cat, or on the tops of high trees. But,more frequently, higher still on the ridges of the rocks where pussnever came."Higher, higher!" cried the trees and the bushes, "see to whatheight we have grown, and how fast we hold, even to the narrow edgesof the rocks."Rudy often reached the top of the mountain before the sunrise, andthere inhaled his morning draught of the fresh, invigoratingmountain air, God's own gift, which men call the sweet fragrance ofplant and herb on the mountain side, and the mint and wild thyme inthe valleys. The overhanging clouds absorb all heaviness from the air,and the winds convey them away over the pine tree summits. Thespirit of fragrance, light and fresh, remained behind, and this wasRudy's morning draught. The sunbeams those blessing bringingdaughters of the sun kissed his cheeks. Vertigo might be lurking onthe watch, but he dared not approach him. The swallows, who had notless than seven nests in his grandfather's house, flew up to him andhis goats, singing, "We and you, you and we." They brought himgreetings from his grandfather's house, even from two hens, the onlybirds of the household. but Rudy was not intimate with them.Although so young and such a little fellow, Rudy had travelled agreat deal. He was born in the canton of Valais, and brought to hisgrandfather over the mountains. He had walked to Staubbach a littletown that seems to flutter in the air like a silver veil theglittering, snow clad mountain Jungfrau. He had also been to the greatglaciers. but this is connected with a sad story, for here hismother met her death, and his grandfather used to say that allRudy's childish merriment was lost from that time. His mother hadwritten in a letter, that before he was a year old he had laughed morethan he cried. but after his fall into the snow covered crevasse,his disposition had completely changed. The grandfather seldom spokeof this, but the fact was generally known. Rudy's father had been apostilion, and the large dog which now lived in his grandfather'scottage had always followed him on his journeys over the Simplon tothe lake of Geneva. Rudy's relations, on his father's side, lived inthe canton of Valais, in the valley of the Rhone. His uncle was achamois hunter, and a well known guide. Rudy was only a year oldwhen his father died, and his mother was anxious to return with herchild to her own relations, who lived in the Bernese Oberland. Herfather dwelt at a few hours' distance from Grindelwald. he was acarver in wood, and gained so much by it that he had plenty to liveupon. She set out homewards in the month of June, carrying herinfant in her arms, and, accompanied by two chamois hunters, crossedthe Gemmi on her way to Grindelwald. They had already left more thanhalf the journey behind them. They had crossed high ridges, andtraversed snow fields. they could even see her native valley, with itsfamiliar wooden cottages. They had only one more glacier to climb.Some newly fallen snow concealed a cleft which, though it did notextend to the foaming waters in the depths beneath, was still muchdeeper than the height of a man. The young woman, with the child inher arms, slipped upon it, sank in, and disappeared. Not a shriek, nota groan was heard. nothing but the whining of a little child. Morethan an hour elapsed before her two companions could obtain from thenearest house ropes and poles to assist in raising them. and it waswith much exertion that they at last succeeded in raising from thecrevasse what appeared to be two dead bodies. Every means was usedto restore them to life. With the child they were successful, butnot with the mother. so the old grandfather received his daughter'slittle son into his house an orphan, a little boy who laughed morethan he cried. but it seemed as if laughter had left him in the coldice world into which he had fallen, where, as the Swiss peasantssay, the souls of the lost are confined till the judgment day.The glaciers appear as if a rushing stream had been frozen inits course, and pressed into blocks of green crystal, which,balanced one upon another, form a wondrous palace of crystal for theIce Maiden the queen of the glaciers. It is she whose mighty powercan crush the traveller to death, and arrest the flowing river inits course. She is also a child of the air, and with the swiftnessof the chamois she can reach the snow covered mountain tops, where theboldest mountaineer has to cut footsteps in the ice to ascend. Shewill sail on a frail pine twig over the raging torrents beneath, andspring lightly from one iceberg to another, with her long,snow white hair flowing around her, and her dark green robe glitteringlike the waters of the deep Swiss lakes. "Mine is the power to seizeand crush," she cried. "Once a beautiful boy was stolen from me byman, a boy whom I had kissed, but had not kissed to death. He isagain among mankind, and tends the goats on the mountains. He isalways climbing higher and higher, far away from all others, but notfrom me. He is mine. I will send for him." And she gave Vertigo thecommission.It was summer, and the Ice Maiden was melting amidst the greenverdure, when Vertigo swung himself up and down. Vertigo has manybrothers, quite a troop of them, and the Ice Maiden chose thestrongest among them. They exercise their power in different ways, andeverywhere. Some sit on the banisters of steep stairs, others on theouter rails of lofty towers, or spring like squirrels along the ridgesof the mountains. Others tread the air as a swimmer treads thewater, and lure their victims here and there till they fall into thedeep abyss. Vertigo and the Ice Maiden clutch at human beings, asthe polypus seizes upon all that comes within its reach. And nowVertigo was to seize Rudy."Seize him, indeed," cried Vertigo. "I cannot do it. Thatmonster of a cat has taught him her tricks. That child of the humanrace has a power within him which keeps me at a distance. I cannotpossibly reach the boy when he hangs from the branches of trees,over the precipice. or I would gladly tickle his feet, and send himheels over head through the air. but I cannot accomplish it.""We must accomplish it," said the Ice Maiden. "either you or Imust. and I will I will!""No, no!" sounded through the air, like an echo on the mountainchurch bells chime. It was an answer in song, in the melting tonesof a chorus from others of nature's spirits good and lovingspirits, the daughters of the sunbeam. They who place themselves ina circle every evening on the mountain peaks. there they spread outtheir rose colored wings, which, as the sun sinks, become more flamingred, until the lofty Alps seem to burn with fire. Men call this theAlpine glow. After the sun has set, they disappear within the whitesnow on the mountain tops, and slumber there till sunrise, when theyagain come forth. They have great love for flowers, for butterflies,and for mankind. and from among the latter they had chosen littleRudy. "You shall not catch him. you shall not seize him!" they sang."Greater and stronger than he have I seized!" said the Ice Maiden.Then the daughters of the sun sang a song of the traveller,whose cloak had been carried away by the wind. "The wind took thecovering, but not the man. it could even seize upon him, but nothold him fast. The children of strength are more powerful, moreethereal, even than we are. They can rise higher than our parent,the sun. They have the magic words that rule the wind and the waves,and compel them to serve and obey. and they can, at last, cast off theheavy, oppressive weight of mortality, and soar upwards." Thus sweetlysounded the bell like tones of the chorus.And each morning the sun's rays shone through the one littlewindow of the grandfather's house upon the quiet child. Thedaughters of the sunbeam kissed him. they wished to thaw, and melt,and obliterate the ice kiss which the queenly maiden of the glaciershad given him as he lay in the lap of his dead mother, in the deepcrevasse of ice from which he had been so wonderfully rescued.Rudy was just eight years old, when his uncle, who lived on theother side of the mountain, wished to have the boy, as he thought hemight obtain a better education with him, and learn something more.His grandfather thought the same, so he consented to let him go.Rudy had many to say farewell to, as well as his grandfather. First,there was Ajola, the old dog."Your father was the postilion, and I was the postilion's dog,"said Ajola. "We have often travelled the same journey together. I knewall the dogs and men on this side of the mountain. It is not myhabit to talk much. but now that we have so little time to conversetogether, I will say something more than usual. I will relate to you astory, which I have reflected upon for a long time. I do notunderstand it, and very likely you will not, but that is of noconsequence. I have, however, learnt from it that in this world thingsare not equally divided, neither for dogs nor for men. All are notborn to lie on the lap and to drink milk: I have never been pettedin this way, but I have seen a little dog seated in the place of agentleman or lady, and travelling inside a post chaise. The lady,who was his mistress, or of whom he was master, carried a bottle ofmilk, of which the little dog now and then drank. she also offered himpieces of sugar to crunch. He sniffed at them proudly, but would noteat one, so she ate them herself. I was running along the dirty roadby the side of the carriage as hungry as a dog could be, chewing thecud of my own thoughts, which were rather in confusion. But many otherthings seemed in confusion also. Why was not I lying on a lap andtravelling in a coach? I could not tell. yet I knew I could notalter my own condition, either by barking or growling."This was Ajola's farewell speech, and Rudy threw his arms roundthe dog's neck and kissed his cold nose. Then he took the cat in hisarms, but he struggled to get free."You are getting too strong for me," he said. "but I will notuse my claws against you. Clamber away over the mountains. it was Iwho taught you to climb. Do not fancy you are going to fall, and youwill be quite safe." Then the cat jumped down and ran away. he did notwish Rudy to see that there were tears in his eyes.The hens were hopping about the floor. one of them had no tail.a traveller, who fancied himself a sportsman, had shot off her tail,he had mistaken her for a bird of prey."Rudy is going away over the mountains," said one of the hens."He is always in such a hurry," said the other. "and I don'tlike taking leave," so they both hopped out.But the goats said farewell. they bleated and wanted to go withhim, they were so very sorry.Just at this time two clever guides were going to cross themountains to the other side of the Gemmi, and Rudy was to go with themon foot. It was a long walk for such a little boy, but he had plentyof strength and invincible courage. The swallows flew with him alittle way, singing, "We and you you and we." The way led acrossthe rushing Lutschine, which falls in numerous streams from the darkclefts of the Grindelwald glaciers. Trunks of fallen trees andblocks of stone form bridges over these streams. After passing aforest of alders, they began to ascend, passing by some blocks ofice that had loosened themselves from the side of the mountain and layacross their path. they had to step over these ice blocks or walkround them. Rudy crept here and ran there, his eyes sparkling withjoy, and he stepped so firmly with his iron tipped mountain shoe, thathe left a mark behind him wherever he placed his foot.The earth was black where the mountain torrents or the meltedice had poured upon it, but the bluish green, glassy ice sparkledand glittered. They had to go round little pools, like lakes, enclosedbetween large masses of ice. and, while thus wandering out of theirpath, they came near an immense stone, which lay balanced on theedge of an icy peak. The stone lost its balance just as they reachedit, and rolled over into the abyss beneath, while the noise of itsfall was echoed back from every hollow cliff of the glaciers.They were always going upwards. The glaciers seemed to spreadabove them like a continued chain of masses of ice, piled up in wildconfusion between bare and rugged rocks. Rudy thought for a momentof what had been told him, that he and his mother had once lain buriedin one of these cold, heart chilling fissures. but he soon banishedsuch thoughts, and looked upon the story as fabulous, like manyother stories which had been told him. Once or twice, when the menthought the way was rather difficult for such a little boy, theyheld out their hands to assist him. but he would not accept theirassistance, for he stood on the slippery ice as firmly as if he hadbeen a chamois. They came at length to rocky ground. sometimesstepping upon moss covered stones, sometimes passing beneath stuntedfir trees, and again through green meadows. The landscape was alwayschanging, but ever above them towered the lofty snow clad mountains,whose names not only Rudy but every other child knew "TheJungfrau," "The Monk and the Eiger."Rudy had never been so far away before. he had never trodden onthe wide spreading ocean of snow that lay here with its immovablebillows, from which the wind blows off the snowflake now and then,as it cuts the foam from the waves of the sea. The glaciers stand hereso close together it might almost be said they are hand in hand. andeach is a crystal palace for the Ice Maiden, whose power and will itis to seize and imprison the unwary traveller.The sun shone warmly, and the snow sparkled as if covered withglittering diamonds. Numerous insects, especially butterflies andbees, lay dead in heaps on the snow. They had ventured too high, orthe wind had carried them here and left them to die of cold.Around the Wetterhorn hung a feathery cloud, like a woolbag, and athreatening cloud too, for as it sunk lower it increased in size,and concealed within was a "fohn," fearful in its violence should itbreak loose. This journey, with its varied incidents, the wild paths,the night passed on the mountain, the steep rocky precipices, thehollow clefts, in which the rustling waters from time immemorial hadworn away passages for themselves through blocks of stone, allthese were firmly impressed on Rudy's memory.In a forsaken stone building, which stood just beyond the seasof snow, they one night took shelter. Here they found some charcoaland pine branches, so that they soon made a fire. They arrangedcouches to lie on as well as they could, and then the men seatedthemselves by the fire, took out their pipes, and began to smoke. Theyalso prepared a warm, spiced drink, of which they partook and Rudy wasnot forgotten he had his share. Then they began to talk of thosemysterious beings with which the land of the Alps abounds. the hostsof apparitions which come in the night, and carry off the sleepersthrough the air, to the wonderful floating town of Venice. of the wildherds man, who drives the black sheep across the meadows. These flocksare never seen, yet the tinkle of their little bells has often beenheard, as well as their unearthly bleating. Rudy listened eagerly, butwithout fear, for he knew not what fear meant. and while helistened, he fancied he could hear the roaring of the spectral herd.It seemed to come nearer and roar louder, till the men heard it alsoand listened in silence, till, at length, they told Rudy that hemust not dare to sleep. It was a "fohn," that violent storm wind whichrushes from the mountain to the valley beneath, and in its furysnaps asunder the trunks of large trees as if they were but slenderreeds, and carries the wooden houses from one side of a river to theother as easily as we could move the pieces on a chess board. After anhour had passed, they told Rudy that it was all over, and he mightgo to sleep. and, fatigued with his long walk, he readily slept at theword of command.Very early the following morning they again set out. The sun onthis day lighted up for Rudy new mountains, new glaciers, and newsnow fields. They had entered the Canton Valais, and foundthemselves on the ridge of the hills which can be seen fromGrindelwald. but he was still far from his new home. They pointedout to him other clefts, other meadows, other woods and rocky paths,and other houses. Strange men made their appearance before him, andwhat men! They were misshapen, wretched looking creatures, with yellowcomplexions. and on their necks were dark, ugly lumps of flesh,hanging down like bags. They were called cretins. They draggedthemselves along painfully, and stared at the strangers with vacanteyes. The women looked more dreadful than the men. Poor Rudy! werethese the sort of people he should see at his new home?Rudy arrived at last at his uncle's house, and was thankful tofind the people like those he had been accustomed to see. There wasonly one cretin amongst them, a poor idiot boy, one of thoseunfortunate beings who, in their neglected conditions, go from houseto house, and are received and taken care of in different families,for a month or two at a time.Poor Saperli had just arrived at his uncle's house when Rudy came.The uncle was an experienced hunter. he also followed the trade of acooper. his wife was a lively little person, with a face like abird, eyes like those of an eagle, and a long, hairy throat.Everything was new to Rudy the fashion of the dress, the manners, theemployments, and even the language. but the latter his childish earwould soon learn. He saw also that there was more wealth here, whencompared with his former home at his grandfather's. The rooms werelarger, the walls were adorned with the horns of the chamois, andbrightly polished guns. Over the door hung a painting of the VirginMary, fresh alpine roses and a burning lamp stood near it. Rudy'suncle was, as we have said, one of the most noted chamois hunters inthe whole district, and also one of the best guides. Rudy soonbecame the pet of the house. but there was another pet, an oldhound, blind and lazy, who would never more follow the hunt, well ashe had once done so. But his former good qualities were not forgotten,and therefore the animal was kept in the family and treated with everyindulgence. Rudy stroked the old hound, but he did not like strangers,and Rudy was as yet a stranger. he did not, however, long remain so,he soon endeared himself to every heart, and became like one of thefamily."We are not very badly off, here in the canton Valais," said hisuncle one day. "we have the chamois, they do not die so fast as thewild goats, and it is certainly much better here now than in formertimes. How highly the old times have been spoken of, but ours isbetter. The bag has been opened, and a current of air now blowsthrough our once confined valley. Something better always makes itsappearance when old, worn out things fail."When his uncle became communicative, he would relate stories ofhis youthful days, and farther back still of the warlike times inwhich his father had lived. Valais was then, as he expressed it,only a closed up bag, quite full of sick people, miserable cretins.but the French soldiers came, and they were capital doctors, they soonkilled the disease and the sick people, too. The French people knewhow to fight in more ways than one, and the girls knew how toconquer too. and when he said this the uncle nodded at his wife, whowas a French woman by birth, and laughed. The French could also dobattle on the stones. "It was they who cut a road out of the solidrock over the Simplon such a road, that I need only say to a child ofthree years old, 'Go down to Italy, you have only to keep in thehigh road,' and the child will soon arrive in Italy, if he followed mydirections."Then the uncle sang a French song, and cried, "Hurrah! long liveNapoleon Buonaparte." This was the first time Rudy had ever heard ofFrance, or of Lyons, that great city on the Rhone where his unclehad once lived. His uncle said that Rudy, in a very few years, wouldbecome a clever hunter, he had quite a talent for it. he taught theboy to hold a gun properly, and to load and fire it. In the huntingseason he took him to the hills, and made him drink the warm bloodof the chamois, which is said to prevent the hunter from becominggiddy. he taught him to know the time when, from the differentmountains, the avalanche is likely to fall, namely, at noontide orin the evening, from the effects of the sun's rays. he made himobserve the movements of the chamois when he gave a leap, so that hemight fall firmly and lightly on his feet. He told him that when onthe fissures of the rocks he could find no place for his feet, he mustsupport himself on his elbows, and cling with his legs, and evenlean firmly with his back, for this could be done when necessary. Hetold him also that the chamois are very cunning, they placelookers out on the watch. but the hunter must be more cunning thanthey are, and find them out by the scent.One day, when Rudy went out hunting with his uncle, he hung a coatand hat on an alpine staff, and the chamois mistook it for a man, asthey generally do. The mountain path was narrow here. indeed it wasscarcely a path at all, only a kind of shelf, close to the yawningabyss. The snow that lay upon it was partially thawed, and thestones crumbled beneath the feet. Every fragment of stone broken offstruck the sides of the rock in its fall, till it rolled into thedepths beneath, and sunk to rest. Upon this shelf Rudy's uncle laidhimself down, and crept forward. At about a hundred paces behind himstood Rudy, upon the highest point of the rock, watching a greatvulture hovering in the air. with a single stroke of his wing the birdmight easily cast the creeping hunter into the abyss beneath, and makehim his prey. Rudy's uncle had eyes for nothing but the chamois,who, with its young kid, had just appeared round the edge of the rock.So Rudy kept his eyes fixed on the bird, he knew well what the greatcreature wanted. therefore he stood in readiness to discharge hisgun at the proper moment. Suddenly the chamois made a spring, andhis uncle fired and struck the animal with the deadly bullet. whilethe young kid rushed away, as if for a long life he had beenaccustomed to danger and practised flight. The large bird, alarmedat the report of the gun, wheeled off in another direction, and Rudy'suncle was saved from danger, of which he knew nothing till he was toldof it by the boy.While they were both in pleasant mood, wending their wayhomewards, and the uncle whistling the tune of a song he had learnt inhis young days, they suddenly heard a peculiar sound which seemed tocome from the top of the mountain. They looked up, and saw above them,on the over hanging rock, the snow covering heave and lift itself as apiece of linen stretched on the ground to dry raises itself when thewind creeps under it. Smooth as polished marble slabs, the waves ofsnow cracked and loosened themselves, and then suddenly, with therumbling noise of distant thunder, fell like a foaming cataract intothe abyss. An avalanche had fallen, not upon Rudy and his uncle, butvery near them. Alas, a great deal too near!"Hold fast, Rudy!" cried his uncle. "hold fast, with all yourmight."Then Rudy clung with his arms to the trunk of the nearest tree,while his uncle climbed above him, and held fast by the branches.The avalanche rolled past them at some distance. but the gust ofwind that followed, like the storm wings of the avalanche, snappedasunder the trees and bushes over which it swept, as if they hadbeen but dry rushes, and threw them about in every direction. The treeto which Rudy clung was thus overthrown, and Rudy dashed to theground. The higher branches were snapped off, and carried away to agreat distance. and among these shattered branches lay Rudy's uncle,with his skull fractured. When they found him, his hand was stillwarm. but it would have been impossible to recognize his face. Rudystood by, pale and trembling. it was the first shock of his life,the first time he had ever felt fear. Late in the evening hereturned home with the fatal news, to that home which was now to beso full of sorrow. His uncle's wife uttered not a word, nor shed atear, till the corpse was brought in. then her agony burst forth.The poor cretin crept away to his bed, and nothing was seen of himduring the whole of the following day. Towards evening, however, hecame to Rudy, and said, "Will you write a letter for me? Saperlicannot write. Saperli can only take the letters to the post.""A letter for you!" said Rudy. "who do you wish to write to?""To the Lord Christ," he replied."What do you mean?" asked Rudy.Then the poor idiot, as the cretin was often called, looked atRudy with a most touching expression in his eyes, clasped his hands,and said, solemnly and devoutly, "Saperli wants to send a letter toJesus Christ, to pray Him to let Saperli die, and not the master ofthe house here."Rudy pressed his hand, and replied, "A letter would not reachHim up above. it would not give him back whom we have lost."It was not, however, easy for Rudy to convince Saperli of theimpossibility of doing what he wished."Now you must work for us," said his foster mother. and Rudyvery soon became the entire support of the house.Who was the best marksman in the canton Valais? The chamois knewwell. "Save yourselves from Rudy," they might well say. And who is thehandsomest marksman? "Oh, it is Rudy," said the maidens. but theydid not say, "Save yourselves from Rudy." Neither did anxiousmothers say so. for he bowed to them as pleasantly as to the younggirls. He was so brave and cheerful. His cheeks were brown, histeeth white, and his eyes dark and sparkling. He was now a handsomeyoung man of twenty years. The most icy water could not deter him fromswimming. he could twist and turn like a fish. None could climb likehe, and he clung as firmly to the edges of the rocks as a limpet. Hehad strong muscular power, as could be seen when he leapt from rock torock. He had learnt this first from the cat, and more lately fromthe chamois. Rudy was considered the best guide over the mountains.every one had great confidence in him. He might have made a great dealof money as guide. His uncle had also taught him the trade of acooper. but he had no inclination for either. his delight was inchamois hunting, which also brought him plenty of money. Rudy would bea very good match, as people said, if he would not look above hisown station. He was also such a famous partner in dancing, that thegirls often dreamt about him, and one and another thought of himeven when awake."He kissed me in the dance," said Annette, the schoolmaster'sdaughter, to her dearest friend. but she ought not to have toldthis, even to her dearest friend. It is not easy to keep such secrets.they are like sand in a sieve. they slip out. It was therefore soonknown that Rudy, so brave and so good as he was, had kissed some onewhile dancing, and yet he had never kissed her who was dearest to him."Ah, ah," said an old hunter, "he has kissed Annette, has he? hehas begun with A, and I suppose he will kiss through the wholealphabet."But a kiss in the dance was all the busy tongues could accusehim of. He certainly had kissed Annette, but she was not the flower ofhis heart.Down in the valley, near Bex, among the great walnut trees, by theside of a little rushing mountain stream, lived a rich miller. Hisdwelling house was a large building, three storeys high, with littleturrets. The roof was covered with chips, bound together with tinplates, that glittered in sunshine and in the moonlight. The largestof the turrets had a weather cock, representing an apple pierced bya glittering arrow, in memory of William Tell. The mill was a neat andwell ordered place, that allowed itself to be sketched and writtenabout. but the miller's daughter did not permit any to sketch or writeabout her. So, at least, Rudy would have said, for her image waspictured in his heart. her eyes shone in it so brightly, that quitea flame had been kindled there. and, like all other fires, it hadburst forth so suddenly, that the miller's daughter, the beautifulBabette, was quite unaware of it. Rudy had never spoken a word toher on the subject. The miller was rich, and, on that account, Babettestood very high, and was rather difficult to aspire to. But saidRudy to himself, "Nothing is too high for a man to reach: he mustclimb with confidence in himself, and he will not fail." He had learntthis lesson in his youthful home.It happened once that Rudy had some business to settle at Bex.It was a long journey at that time, for the railway had not beenopened. From the glaciers of the Rhone, at the foot of the Simplon,between its ever changing mountain summits, stretches the valley ofthe canton Valais. Through it runs the noble river of the Rhone, whichoften overflows its banks, covering fields and highways, anddestroying everything in its course. Near the towns of Sion and St.Maurice, the valley takes a turn, and bends like an elbow, andbehind St. Maurice becomes so narrow that there is only space enoughfor the bed of the river and a narrow carriage road. An old towerstands here, as if it were guardian to the canton Valais, which endsat this point. and from it we can look across the stone bridge tothe toll house on the other side, where the canton Vaud commences. Notfar from this spot stands the town of Bex, and at every step can beseen an increase of fruitfulness and verdure. It is like entering agrove of chestnut and walnut trees. Here and there the cypress andpomegranate blossoms peep forth. and it is almost as warm as anItalian climate. Rudy arrived at Bex, and soon finished the businesswhich had brought him there, and then walked about the town. but noteven the miller's boy could be seen, nor any one belonging to themill, not to mention Babette. This did not please him at all.Evening came on. The air was filled with the perfume of the wild thymeand the blossoms of the lime trees, and the green woods on themountains seemed to be covered with a shining veil, blue as the sky.Over everything reigned a stillness, not of sleep or of death, butas if Nature were holding her breath, that her image might bephotographed on the blue vault of heaven. Here and there, amidst thetrees of the silent valley, stood poles which supported the wires ofthe electric telegraph. Against one of these poles leaned an object somotionless that it might have been mistaken for the trunk of a tree.but it was Rudy, standing there as still as at that moment waseverything around him. He was not asleep, neither was he dead. butjust as the various events in the world matters of momentousimportance to individuals were flying through the telegraph wires,without the quiver of a wire or the slightest tone, so, through themind of Rudy, thoughts of overwhelming importance were passing,without an outward sign of emotion. The happiness of his future lifedepended upon the decision of his present reflections. His eyes werefixed on one spot in the distance a light that twinkled through thefoliage from the parlor of the miller's house, where Babette dwelt.Rudy stood so still, that it might have been supposed he waswatching for a chamois. but he was in reality like a chamois, who willstand for a moment, looking as if it were chiselled out of the rock,and then, if only a stone rolled by, would suddenly bound forward witha spring, far away from the hunter. And so with Rudy: a sudden roll ofhis thoughts roused him from his stillness, and made him bound forwardwith determination to act."Never despair!" cried he. "A visit to the mill, to say goodevening to the miller, and good evening to little Babette, can do noharm. No one ever fails who has confidence in himself. If I am to beBabette's husband, I must see her some time or other."Then Rudy laughed joyously, and took courage to go to the mill. Heknew what he wanted. he wanted to marry Babette. The clear water ofthe river rolled over its yellow bed, and willows and lime treeswere reflected in it, as Rudy stepped along the path to the miller'shouse. But, as the children sing "There was no one at home in the house,Only a kitten at play."The cat standing on the steps put up its back and cried "mew." ButRudy had no inclination for this sort of conversation. he passed on,and knocked at the door. No one heard him, no one opened the door."Mew," said the cat again. and had Rudy been still a child, he wouldhave understood this language, and known that the cat wished to tellhim there was no one at home. So he was obliged to go to the milland make inquiries, and there he heard that the miller had gone on ajourney to Interlachen, and taken Babette with him, to the greatshooting festival, which began that morning, and would continue foreight days, and that people from all the German settlements would bethere.Poor Rudy! we may well say. It was not a fortunate day for hisvisit to Bex. He had just to return the way he came, through St.Maurice and Sion, to his home in the valley. But he did not despair.When the sun rose the next morning, his good spirits had returned.indeed he had never really lost them. "Babette is at Interlachen,"said Rudy to himself, "many days' journey from here. It is certainly along way for any one who takes the high road, but not so far if hetakes a short cut across the mountain, and that just suits achamois hunter. I have been that way before, for it leads to thehome of my childhood, where, as a little boy, I lived with mygrandfather. And there are shooting matches at Interlachen. I will go,and try to stand first in the match. Babette will be there, and Ishall be able to make her acquaintance."Carrying his light knapsack, which contained his Sunday clothes,on his back, and with his musket and his game bag over his shoulder,Rudy started to take the shortest way across the mountain. Still itwas a great distance. The shooting matches were to commence on thatday, and to continue for a whole week. He had been told also thatthe miller and Babette would remain that time with some relatives atInterlachen. So over the Gemmi Rudy climbed bravely, and determined todescend the side of the Grindelwald. Bright and joyous were hisfeelings as he stepped lightly onwards, inhaling the invigoratingmountain air. The valley sunk as he ascended, the circle of thehorizon expanded. One snow capped peak after another rose beforehim, till the whole of the glittering Alpine range became visible.Rudy knew each ice clad peak, and he continued his course towardsthe Schreckhorn, with its white powdered stone finger raised high inthe air. At length he had crossed the highest ridges, and before himlay the green pasture lands sloping down towards the valley, which wasonce his home. The buoyancy of the air made his heart light. Hilland valley were blooming in luxuriant beauty, and his thoughts wereyouthful dreams, in which old age or death were out of the question.Life, power, and enjoyment were in the future, and he felt free andlight as a bird. And the swallows flew round him, as in the days ofhis childhood, singing "We and you you and we." All was overflowingwith joy. Beneath him lay the meadows, covered with velvety green,with the murmuring river flowing through them, and dotted here andthere were small wooden houses. He could see the edges of theglaciers, looking like green glass against the soiled snow, and thedeep chasms beneath the loftiest glacier. The church bells wereringing, as if to welcome him to his home with their sweet tones.His heart beat quickly, and for a moment he seemed to haveforegotten Babette, so full were his thoughts of old recollections. Hewas, in imagination, once more wandering on the road where, when alittle boy, he, with other children, came to sell their curiouslycarved toy houses. Yonder, behind the fir trees, still stood hisgrandfather's house, his mother's father, but strangers dwelt in itnow. Children came running to him, as he had once done, and wishedto sell their wares. One of them offered him an Alpine rose. Rudy tookthe rose as a good omen, and thought of Babette. He quickly crossedthe bridge where the two rivers flow into each other. Here he founda walk over shadowed with large walnut trees, and their thickfoliage formed a pleasant shade. Very soon he perceived in thedistance, waving flags, on which glittered a white cross on a redground the standard of the Danes as well as of the Swiss andbefore him lay Interlachen."It is really a splendid town, like none other that I have everseen," said Rudy to himself. It was indeed a Swiss town in its holidaydress. Not like the many other towns, crowded with heavy stone houses,stiff and foreign looking. No. here it seemed as if the woodenhouses on the hills had run into the valley, and placed themselvesin rows and ranks by the side of the clear river, which rushes like anarrow in its course. The streets were rather irregular, it is true,but still this added to their picturesque appearance. There was onestreet which Rudy thought the prettiest of them all. it had been builtsince he had visited the town when a little boy. It seemed to him asif all the neatest and most curiously carved toy houses which hisgrandfather once kept in the large cupboard at home, had beenbrought out and placed in this spot, and that they had increased insize since then, as the old chestnut trees had done. The houses werecalled hotels. the woodwork on the windows and balconies was curiouslycarved. The roofs were gayly painted, and before each house was aflower garden, which separated it from the macadamized high road.These houses all stood on the same side of the road, so that thefresh, green meadows, in which were cows grazing, with bells ontheir necks, were not hidden. The sound of these bells is oftenheard amidst Alpine scenery. These meadows were encircled by loftyhills, which receded a little in the centre, so that the mostbeautifully formed of Swiss mountains the snow crowned Jungfrau couldbe distinctly seen glittering in the distance. A number ofelegantly dressed gentlemen and ladies from foreign lands, andcrowds of country people from the neighboring cantons, wereassembled in the town. Each marksman wore the number of hits he hadmade twisted in a garland round his hat. Here were music and singingof all descriptions: hand organs, trumpets, shouting, and noise. Thehouses and bridges were adorned with verses and inscriptions. Flagsand banners were waving. Shot after shot was fired, which was the bestmusic to Rudy's ears. And amidst all this excitement he quite forgotBabette, on whose account only he had come. The shooters werethronging round the target, and Rudy was soon amongst them. But whenhe took his turn to fire, he proved himself the best shot, for healways struck the bull's eye."Who may that young stranger be?" was the inquiry on all sides."He speaks French as it is spoken in the Swiss cantons.""And makes himself understood very well when he speaks German,"said some."He lived here, when a child, with his grandfather, in a houseon the road to Grindelwald," remarked one of the sportsmen.And full of life was this young stranger. his eyes sparkled, hisglance was steady, and his arm sure, therefore he always hit the mark.Good fortune gives courage, and Rudy was always courageous. He soonhad a circle of friends gathered round him. Every one noticed him, anddid him homage. Babette had quite vanished from his thoughts, whenhe was struck on the shoulder by a heavy hand, and a deep voice saidto him in French, "You are from the canton Valais."Rudy turned round, and beheld a man with a ruddy, pleasant face,and a stout figure. It was the rich miller from Bex. His broad, portlyperson, hid the slender, lovely Babette. but she came forward andglanced at him with her bright, dark eyes. The rich miller was verymuch flattered at the thought that the young man, who was acknowledgedto be the best shot, and was so praised by every one, should be fromhis own canton. Now was Rudy really fortunate: he had travelled allthis way to this place, and those he had forgotten were now come toseek him. When country people go far from home, they often meet withthose they know, and improve their acquaintance. Rudy, by hisshooting, had gained the first place in the shooting match, just asthe miller at home at Bex stood first, because of his money and hismill. So the two men shook hands, which they had never done before.Babette, too, held out her hand to Rudy frankly, and he pressed itin his, and looked at her so earnestly, that she blushed deeply. Themiller talked of the long journey they had travelled, and of themany towns they had seen. It was his opinion that he had really madeas great a journey as if he had travelled in a steamship, a railwaycarriage, or a post chaise."I came by a much shorter way," said Rudy. "I came over themountains. There is no road so high that a man may not venture uponit.""Ah, yes. and break your neck," said the miller. "and you looklike one who will break his neck some day, you are so daring.""Oh, nothing ever happens to a man if he has confidence inhimself," replied Rudy.The miller's relations at Interlachen, with whom the miller andBabette were staying, invited Rudy to visit them, when they found hecame from the same canton as the miller. It was a most pleasant visit.Good fortune seemed to follow him, as it does those who think andact for themselves, and who remember the proverb, "Nuts are given tous, but they are not cracked for us." And Rudy was treated by themiller's relations almost like one of the family, and glasses ofwine were poured out to drink to the welfare of the best shooter.Babette clinked glasses with Rudy, and he returned thanks for thetoast. In the evening they all took a delightful walk under thewalnut trees, in front of the stately hotels. there were so manypeople, and such crowding, that Rudy was obliged to offer his arm toBabette. Then he told her how happy it made him to meet people fromthe canton Vaud, for Vaud and Valais were neighboring cantons. Hespoke of this pleasure so heartily that Babette could not resistgiving his arm a slight squeeze. and so they walked on together, andtalked and chatted like old acquaintances. Rudy felt inclined to laughsometimes at the absurd dress and walk of the foreign ladies. butBabette did not wish to make fun of them, for she knew there must besome good, excellent people amongst them. she, herself, had agodmother, who was a high born English lady. Eighteen years before,when Babette was christened, this lady was staying at Bex, and shestood godmother for her, and gave her the valuable brooch she now worein her bosom.Her godmother had twice written to her, and this year she wasexpected to visit Interlachen with her two daughters. "but they areold maids," added Babette, who was only eighteen: "they are nearlythirty." Her sweet little mouth was never still a moment, and all thatshe said sounded in Rudy's ears as matters of the greatest importance,and at last he told her what he was longing to tell. How often hehad been at Bex, how well he knew the mill, and how often he hadseen Babette, when most likely she had not noticed him. and lastly,that full of many thoughts which he could not tell her, he had been tothe mill on the evening when she and her father has started on theirlong journey, but not too far for him to find a way to overtakethem. He told her all this, and a great deal more. he told her howmuch he could endure for her. and that it was to see her, and notthe shooting match, which had brought him to Interlachen. Babettebecame quite silent after hearing all this. it was almost too much,and it troubled her.And while they thus wandered on, the sun sunk behind the loftymountains. The Jungfrau stood out in brightness and splendor, as aback ground to the green woods of the surrounding hills. Every onestood still to look at the beautiful sight, Rudy and Babette amongthem."Nothing can be more beautiful than this," said Babette."Nothing!" replied Rudy, looking at Babette."To morrow I must return home," remarked Rudy a few minutesafterwards."Come and visit us at Bex," whispered Babette. "my father willbe pleased to see you."Oh, what a number of things Rudy had to carry over themountains, when he set out to return home! He had three silver cups,two handsome pistols, and a silver coffee pot. This latter would beuseful when he began housekeeping. But all these were not the heaviestweight he had to bear. something mightier and more important hecarried with him in his heart, over the high mountains, as hejourneyed homeward.The weather was dismally dark, and inclined to rain. the cloudshung low, like a mourning veil on the tops of the mountains, andshrouded their glittering peaks. In the woods could be heard the soundof the axe and the heavy fall of the trunks of the trees, as theyrolled down the slopes of the mountains. When seen from the heights,the trunks of these trees looked like slender stems. but on a nearerinspection they were found to be large and strong enough for the mastsof a ship. The river murmured monotonously, the wind whistled, and theclouds sailed along hurriedly.Suddenly there appeared, close by Rudy's side, a young maiden.he had not noticed her till she came quite near to him. She was alsogoing to ascend the mountain. The maiden's eyes shone with anunearthly power, which obliged you to look into them. they werestrange eyes, clear, deep, and unfathomable."Hast thou a lover?" asked Rudy. all his thoughts were naturallyon love just then."I have none," answered the maiden, with a laugh. it was as if shehad not spoken the truth."Do not let us go such a long way round," said she. "We mustkeep to the left. it is much shorter.""Ah, yes," he replied. "and fall into some crevasse. Do youpretend to be a guide, and not know the road better than that?""I know every step of the way," said she. "and my thoughts arecollected, while yours are down in the valley yonder. We shouldthink of the Ice Maiden while we are up here. men say she is notkind to their race.""I fear her not," said Rudy. "She could not keep me when I was achild. I will not give myself up to her now I am a man."Darkness came on, the rain fell, and then it began to snow, andthe whiteness dazzled the eyes."Give me your hand," said the maiden. "I will help you tomount." And he felt the touch of her icy fingers."You help me," cried Rudy. "I do not yet require a woman to helpme to climb." And he stepped quickly forwards away from her.The drifting snow shower fell like a veil between them, the windwhistled, and behind him he could hear the maiden laughing andsinging, and the sound was most strange to hear."It certainly must be a spectre or a servant of the Ice Maiden,"thought Rudy, who had heard such things talked about when he was alittle boy, and had stayed all night on the mountain with the guides.The snow fell thicker than ever, the clouds lay beneath him. helooked back, there was no one to be seen, but he heard sounds ofmocking laughter, which were not those of a human voice.When Rudy at length reached the highest part of the mountain,where the path led down to the valley of the Rhone, the snow hadceased, and in the clear heavens he saw two bright stars twinkling.They reminded him of Babette and of himself, and of his futurehappiness, and his heart glowed at the thought."What beautiful things you have brought home!" said his oldfoster mother. and her strange looking eagle eyes sparkled, whileshe wriggled and twisted her skinny neck more quickly and strangelythan ever. "You have brought good luck with you, Rudy. I must give youa kiss, my dear boy."Rudy allowed himself to be kissed. but it could be seen by hiscountenance that he only endured the infliction as a homely duty."How handsome you are, Rudy!" said the old woman."Don't flatter," said Rudy, with a laugh. but still he waspleased."I must say once more," said the old woman, "that you are verylucky.""Well, in that I believe you are right," said he, as he thought ofBabette. Never had he felt such a longing for that deep valley as henow had. "They must have returned home by this time," said he tohimself, "it is already two days over the time which they fixedupon. I must go to Bex."So Rudy set out to go to Bex. and when he arrived there, hefound the miller and his daughter at home. They received him kindly,and brought him many greetings from their friends at Interlachen.Babette did not say much. She seemed to have become quite silent.but her eyes spoke, and that was quite enough for Rudy. The miller hadgenerally a great deal to talk about, and seemed to expect thatevery one should listen to his jokes, and laugh at them. for was nothe the rich miller? But now he was more inclined to hear Rudy'sadventures while hunting and travelling, and to listen to hisdescriptions of the difficulties the chamois hunter has to overcome onthe mountain tops, or of the dangerous snow drifts which the windand weather cause to cling to the edges of the rocks, or to lie in theform of a frail bridge over the abyss beneath. The eyes of the braveRudy sparkled as he described the life of a hunter, or spoke of thecunning of the chamois and their wonderful leaps. also of the powerfulfohn and the rolling avalanche. He noticed that the more he described,the more interested the miller became, especially when he spoke of thefierce vulture and of the royal eagle. Not far from Bex, in the cantonValais, was an eagle's nest, more curiously built under a high,over hanging rock. In this nest was a young eagle. but who wouldventure to take it? A young Englishman had offered Rudy a wholehandful of gold, if he would bring him the young eagle alive."There is a limit to everything," was Rudy's reply. "The eaglecould not be taken. it would be folly to attempt it."The wine was passed round freely, and the conversation kept uppleasantly. but the evening seemed too short for Rudy, although it wasmidnight when he left the miller's house, after this his first visit.While the lights in the windows of the miller's house stilltwinkled through the green foliage, out through the open skylight camethe parlor cat on to the roof, and along the water pipe walked thekitchen cat to meet her."What is the news at the mill?" asked the parlor cat. "Here in thehouse there is secret love making going on, which the father knowsnothing about. Rudy and Babette have been treading on each other'spaws, under the table, all the evening. They trod on my tail twice,but I did not mew. that would have attracted notice.""Well, I should have mewed," said the kitchen cat."What might suit the kitchen would not suit the parlor," saidthe other. "I am quite curious to know what the miller will say whenhe finds out this engagement."Yes, indeed. what would the miller say? Rudy himself was anxiousto know that. but to wait till the miller heard of it from otherswas out of the question. Therefore, not many days after this visit, hewas riding in the omnibus that runs between the two cantons, Valaisand Vaud. These cantons are separated by the Rhone, over which is abridge that unites them. Rudy, as usual, had plenty of courage, andindulged in pleasant thoughts of the favorable answer he shouldreceive that evening. And when the omnibus returned, Rudy was againseated in it, going homewards. and at the same time the parlor catat the miller's house ran out quickly, crying, "Here, you from the kitchen, what do you think? The miller knowsall now. Everything has come to a delightful end. Rudy came herethis evening, and he and Babette had much whispering and secretconversation together. They stood in the path near the miller'sroom. I lay at their feet. but they had no eyes or thoughts for me."'I will go to your father at once,' said he. 'it is the mosthonorable way.'"'Shall I go with you?' asked Babette. 'it will give you courage.'"'I have plenty of courage,' said Rudy. 'but if you are with me,he must be friendly, whether he says Yes or No.'"So they turned to go in, and Rudy trod heavily on my tail. hecertainly is very clumsy. I mewed. but neither he nor Babette hadany ears for me. They opened the door, and entered together. I wasbefore them, and jumped on the back of a chair. I hardly know whatRudy said. but the miller flew into a rage, and threatened to kick himout of the house. He told him he might go to the mountains, and lookafter the chamois, but not after our little Babette.""And what did they say? Did they speak?" asked the kitchen cat."What did they say! why, all that people generally do say whenthey go a wooing 'I love her, and she loves me. and when there ismilk in the can for one, there is milk in the can for two.'"'But she is so far above you,' said the miller. 'she has heaps ofgold, as you know. You should not attempt to reach her.'"'There is nothing so high that a man cannot reach, if he will,'answered Rudy. for he is a brave youth."'Yet you could not reach the young eagle,' said the miller,laughing. 'Babette is higher than the eagle's nest.'"'I will have them both,' said Rudy."'Very well. I will give her to you when you bring me the youngeaglet alive,' said the miller. and he laughed till the tears stood inhis eyes. 'But now I thank you for this visit, Rudy. and if you cometo morrow, you will find nobody at home. Good bye, Rudy.'"Babette also wished him farewell. but her voice sounded asmournful as the mew of a little kitten that has lost its mother."'A promise is a promise between man and man,' said Rudy. 'Donot weep, Babette. I shall bring the young eagle.'"'You will break your neck, I hope,' said the miller, 'and weshall be relieved from your company.'"I call that kicking him out of the house," said the parlor cat."And now Rudy is gone, and Babette sits and weeps, while the millersings German songs that he learnt on his journey. but I do not troublemyself on the matter, it would be of no use.""Yet, for all that, it is a very strange affair," said thekitchen cat.From the mountain path came a joyous sound of some personwhistling, and it betokened good humor and undaunted courage. It wasRudy, going to meet his friend Vesinaud. "You must come and help,"said he. "I want to carry off the young eaglet from the top of therock. We will take young Ragli with us.""Had you not better first try to take down the moon? That would bequite as easy a task," said Vesinaud. "You seem to be in goodspirits.""Yes, indeed I am. I am thinking of my wedding. But to be serious,I will tell you all about it, and how I am situated."Then he explained to Vesinaud and Ragli what he wished to do,and why."You are a daring fellow," said they. "but it is no use. youwill break your neck.""No one falls, unless he is afraid," said Rudy.So at midnight they set out, carrying with them poles, ladders,and ropes. The road lay amidst brushwood and underwood, over rollingstones, always upwards higher and higher in the dark night. Watersroared beneath them, or fell in cascades from above. Humid clouds weredriving through the air as the hunters reached the precipitous ledgeof the rock. It was even darker here, for the sides of the rocksalmost met, and the light penetrated only through a small opening atthe top. At a little distance from the edge could be heard the soundof the roaring, foaming waters in the yawning abyss beneath them.The three seated themselves on a stone, to await in stillness the dawnof day, when the parent eagle would fly out, as it would benecessary to shoot the old bird before they could think of gainingpossession of the young one. Rudy sat motionless, as if he had beenpart of the stone on which he sat. He held his gun ready to fire, withhis eyes fixed steadily on the highest point of the cliff, where theeagle's nest lay concealed beneath the overhanging rock.The three hunters had a long time to wait. At last they heard arustling, whirring sound above them, and a large hovering objectdarkened the air. Two guns were ready to aim at the dark body of theeagle as it rose from the nest. Then a shot was fired. for aninstant the bird fluttered its wide spreading wings, and seemed asif it would fill up the whole of the chasm, and drag down thehunters in its fall. But it was not so. the eagle sunk graduallyinto the abyss beneath, and the branches of trees and bushes werebroken by its weight. Then the hunters roused themselves: three of thelongest ladders were brought and bound together. the topmost ring ofthese ladders would just reach the edge of the rock which hung overthe abyss, but no farther. The point beneath which the eagle's nestlay sheltered was much higher, and the sides of the rock were assmooth as a wall. After consulting together, they determined to bindtogether two more ladders, and to hoist them over the cavity, and soform a communication with the three beneath them, by binding the upperones to the lower. With great difficulty they contrived to drag thetwo ladders over the rock, and there they hung for some moments,swaying over the abyss. but no sooner had they fastened them together,than Rudy placed his foot on the lowest step.It was a bitterly cold morning. clouds of mist were rising frombeneath, and Rudy stood on the lower step of the ladder as a fly restson a piece of swinging straw, which a bird may have dropped from theedge of the nest it was building on some tall factory chimney. but thefly could fly away if the straw were shaken, Rudy could only break hisneck. The wind whistled around him, and beneath him the waters ofthe abyss, swelled by the thawing of the glaciers, those palaces ofthe Ice Maiden, foamed and roared in their rapid course. When Rudybegan to ascend, the ladder trembled like the web of the spider,when it draws out the long, delicate threads. but as soon as hereached the fourth of the ladders, which had been bound together, hefelt more confidence, he knew that they had been fastened securely byskilful hands. The fifth ladder, that appeared to reach the nest,was supported by the sides of the rock, yet it swung to and fro, andflapped about like a slender reed, and as if it had been bound byfishing lines. It seemed a most dangerous undertaking to ascend it,but Rudy knew how to climb. he had learnt that from the cat, and hehad no fear. He did not observe Vertigo, who stood in the air behindhim, trying to lay hold of him with his outstretched polypous arms.When at length he stood on the topmost step of the ladder, hefound that he was still some distance below the nest, and not evenable to see into it. Only by using his hands and climbing could hepossibly reach it. He tried the strength of the stunted trees, and thethick underwood upon which the nest rested, and of which it wasformed, and finding they would support his weight, he grasped themfirmly, and swung himself up from the ladder till his head andbreast were above the nest, and then what an overpowering stenchcame from it, for in it lay the putrid remains of lambs, chamois,and birds. Vertigo, although he could not reach him, blew thepoisonous vapor in his face, to make him giddy and faint. and beneath,in the dark, yawning deep, on the rushing waters, sat the IceMaiden, with her long, pale, green hair falling around her, and herdeath like eyes fixed upon him, like the two barrels of a gun. "I havethee now," she cried.In a corner of the eagle's nest sat the young eaglet, a largeand powerful bird, though still unable to fly. Rudy fixed his eyesupon it, held on by one hand with all his strength, and with the otherthrew a noose round the young eagle. The string slipped to its legs.Rudy tightened it, and thus secured the bird alive. Then flingingthe sling over his shoulder, so that the creature hung a good way downbehind him, he prepared to descend with the help of a rope, and hisfoot soon touched safely the highest step of the ladder. Then Rudy,remembering his early lesson in climbing, "Hold fast, and do notfear," descended carefully down the ladders, and at last stoodsafely on the ground with the young living eaglet, where he wasreceived with loud shouts of joy and congratulations."There is what you asked for," said Rudy, as he entered themiller's house at Bex, and placed on the floor a large basket. Heremoved the lid as he spoke, and a pair of yellow eyes, encircled by ablack ring, stared forth with a wild, fiery glance, that seemedready to burn and destroy all that came in its way. Its short,strong beak was open, ready to bite, and on its red throat wereshort feathers, like stubble."The young eaglet!" cried the miller.Babette screamed, and started back, while her eyes wandered fromRudy to the bird in astonishment."You are not to be discouraged by difficulties, I see," said themiller."And you will keep your word," replied Rudy. "Each has his owncharacteristic, whether it is honor or courage.""But how is it you did not break your neck?" asked the miller."Because I held fast," answered Rudy. "and I mean to hold fastto Babette.""You must get her first," said the miller, laughing. and Babettethought this a very good sign."We must take the bird out of the basket," said she. "It isgetting into a rage. how its eyes glare. How did you manage to conquerit?"Then Rudy had to describe his adventure, and the miller's eyesopened wide as he listened."With your courage and your good fortune you might win threewives," said the miller."Oh, thank you," cried Rudy."But you have not won Babette yet," said the miller, slappingthe young Alpine hunter on the shoulder playfully."Have you heard the fresh news at the mill?" asked theparlor cat of the kitchen cat. "Rudy has brought us the young eagle,and he is to take Babette in exchange. They kissed each other in thepresence of the old man, which is as good as an engagement. He wasquite civil about it. drew in his claws, and took his afternoon nap,so that the two were left to sit and wag their tails as much as theypleased. They have so much to talk about that it will not befinished till Christmas." Neither was it finished till Christmas.The wind whirled the faded, fallen leaves. the snow drifted in thevalleys, as well as upon the mountains, and the Ice Maiden sat inthe stately palace which, in winter time, she generally occupied.The perpendicular rocks were covered with slippery ice, and where insummer the stream from the rocks had left a watery veil, icicles largeand heavy hung from the trees, while the snow powdered fir treeswere decorated with fantastic garlands of crystal. The Ice Maiden rodeon the howling wind across the deep valleys, the country, as far asBex, was covered with a carpet of snow, so that the Ice Maiden couldfollow Rudy, and see him, when he visited the mill. and while in theroom at the miller's house, where he was accustomed to spend so muchof his time with Babette. The wedding was to take place in thefollowing summer, and they heard enough of it, for so many of theirfriends spoke of the matter.Then came sunshine to the mill. The beautiful Alpine rosesbloomed, and joyous, laughing Babette, was like the early spring,which makes all the birds sing of summer time and bridal days."How those two do sit and chatter together," said theparlor cat. "I have had enough of their mewing."The walnut and chestnut trees, which extend from the bridge of St.Maurice, by the river Rhone, to the shores of the lake of Geneva, werealready covered with the delicate green garlands of early spring, justbursting into bloom, while the Rhone rushed wildly from its sourceamong the green glaciers which form the ice palace of the IceMaiden. She sometimes allows herself to be carried by the keen wind tothe lofty snow fields, where she stretches herself in the sunshineon the soft snowy cushions. From thence she throws her far seeingglance into the deep valley beneath, where human beings are busilymoving about like ants on a stone in the sun. "Spirits of strength, asthe children of the sun call you," cried the Ice Maiden, "ye are butworms! Let but a snow ball roll, and you and your houses and yourtowns are crushed and swept away." And she raised her proud head,and looked around her with eyes that flashed death from theirglance. From the valley came a rumbling sound. men were busily at workblasting the rocks to form tunnels, and laying down roads for therailway. "They are playing at work underground, like moles," said she."They are digging passages beneath the earth, and the noise is likethe reports of cannons. I shall throw down my palaces, for theclamor is louder than the roar of thunder." Then there ascended fromthe valley a thick vapor, which waved itself in the air like afluttering veil. It rose, as a plume of feathers, from a steam engine,to which, on the lately opened railway, a string of carriages waslinked, carriage to carriage, looking like a winding serpent. Thetrain shot past with the speed of an arrow. "They play at beingmasters down there, those spirits of strength!" exclaimed the IceMaiden. "but the powers of nature are still the rulers." And shelaughed and sang till her voice sounded through the valley, and peoplesaid it was the rolling of an avalanche. But the children of the sunsang in louder strains in praise of the mind of man, which can spanthe sea as with a yoke, can level mountains, and fill up valleys. Itis the power of thought which gives man the mastery over nature.Just at this moment there came across the snow field, where theIce Maiden sat, a party of travellers. They had bound themselvesfast to each other, so that they looked like one large body on theslippery plains of ice encircling the deep abyss."Worms!" exclaimed the Ice Maiden. "You, the lords of the powersof nature!" And she turned away and looked maliciously at the deepvalley where the railway train was rushing by. "There they sit,these thoughts!" she exclaimed. "There they sit in their power overnature's strength. I see them all. One sits proudly apart, like aking. others sit together in a group. yonder, half of them are asleep.and when the steam dragon stops, they will get out and go their way.The thoughts go forth into the world," and she laughed."There goes another avalanche," said those in the valley beneath."It will not reach us," said two who sat together behind the steamdragon. "Two hearts and one beat," as people say. They were Rudy andBabette, and the miller was with them. "I am like the luggage," saidhe. "I am here as a necessary appendage.""There sit those two," said the Ice Maiden. "Many a chamois have Icrushed. Millions of Alpine roses have I snapped and broken off. not aroot have I spared. I know them all, and their thoughts, those spiritsof strength!" and again she laughed."There rolls another avalanche," said those in the valley.At Montreux, one of the towns which encircle the northeast part ofthe lake of Geneva, lived Babette's godmother, the noble English lady,with her daughters and a young relative. They had only lately arrived,yet the miller had paid them a visit, and informed them of Babette'sengagement to Rudy. The whole story of their meeting at Interlachen,and his brave adventure with the eaglet, were related to them, andthey were all very much interested, and as pleased about Rudy andBabette as the miller himself. The three were invited to come toMontreux. it was but right for Babette to become acquainted with hergodmother, who wished to see her very much. A steam boat startedfrom the town of Villeneuve, at one end of the lake of Geneva, andarrived at Bernex, a little town beyond Montreux, in about half anhour. And in this boat, the miller, with his daughter and Rudy, setout to visit her godmother. They passed the coast which has been socelebrated in song. Here, under the walnut trees, by the deep bluelake, sat Byron, and wrote his melodious verses about the prisonerconfined in the gloomy castle of Chillon. Here, where Clarens, withits weeping willows, is reflected in the clear water, wanderedRousseau, dreaming of Heloise. The river Rhone glides gently bybeneath the lofty snow capped hills of Savoy, and not far from itsmouth lies a little island in the lake, so small that, seen from theshore, it looks like a ship. The surface of the island is rocky. andabout a hundred years ago, a lady caused the ground to be covered withearth, in which three acacia trees were planted, and the wholeenclosed with stone walls. The acacia trees now overshadow everypart of the island. Babette was enchanted with the spot. it seemedto her the most beautiful object in the whole voyage, and shethought how much she should like to land there. But the steam shippassed it by, and did not stop till it reached Bernex. The littleparty walked slowly from this place to Montreux, passing the sun litwalls with which the vineyards of the little mountain town of Montreuxare surrounded, and peasants' houses, overshadowed by fig trees,with gardens in which grow the laurel and the cypress.Halfway up the hill stood the boarding house in which Babette'sgodmother resided. She was received most cordially. her godmotherwas a very friendly woman, with a round, smiling countenance. When achild, her head must have resembled one of Raphael's cherubs. it wasstill an angelic face, with its white locks of silvery hair. Thedaughters were tall, elegant, slender maidens.The young cousin, whom they had brought with them, was dressedin white from head to foot. he had golden hair and golden whiskers,large enough to be divided amongst three gentlemen. and he beganimmediately to pay the greatest attention to Babette.Richly bound books, note paper, and drawings, lay on the largetable. The balcony window stood open, and from it could be seen thebeautiful wide extended lake, the water so clear and still, that themountains of Savoy, with their villages, woods, and snow crownedpeaks, were clearly reflected in it.Rudy, who was usually so lively and brave, did not in the leastfeel himself at home. he acted as if he were walking on peas, over aslippery floor. How long and wearisome the time appeared. it waslike being in a treadmill. And then they went out for a walk, whichwas very slow and tedious. Two steps forward and one backwards hadRudy to take to keep pace with the others. They walked down toChillon, and went over the old castle on the rocky island. They sawthe implements of torture, the deadly dungeons, the rusty fetters inthe rocky walls, the stone benches for those condemned to death, thetrap doors through which the unhappy creatures were hurled upon ironspikes, and impaled alive. They called looking at all these apleasure. It certainly was the right place to visit. Byron's poetryhad made it celebrated in the world. Rudy could only feel that itwas a place of execution. He leaned against the stone framework of thewindow, and gazed down into the deep, blue water, and over to thelittle island with the three acacias, and wished himself there, awayand free from the whole chattering party. But Babette was mostunusually lively and good tempered."I have been so amused," she said.The cousin had found her quite perfect."He is a perfect fop," said Rudy. and this was the first time Rudyhad said anything that did not please Babette.The Englishman had made her a present of a little book, inremembrance of their visit to Chillon. It was Byron's poem, "ThePrisoner of Chillon," translated into French, so that Babette couldread it."The book may be very good," said Rudy. "but that finely combedfellow who gave it to you is not worth much.""He looks something like a flour sack without any flour," said themiller, laughing at his own wit. Rudy laughed, too, for so had heappeared to him.When Rudy went a few days after to pay a visit to the mill, hefound the young Englishman there. Babette was just thinking ofpreparing some trout to set before him. She understood well how togarnish the dish with parsley, and make it look quite tempting. Rudythought all this quite unnecessary. What did the Englishman wantthere? What was he about? Why should he be entertained, and waitedupon by Babette? Rudy was jealous, and that made Babette happy. Itamused her to discover all the feelings of his heart. the strongpoints and weak ones. Love was to her as yet only a pastime, and sheplayed with Rudy's whole heart. At the same time it must beacknowledged that her fortune, her whole life, her inmost thoughts,her best and most noble feelings in this world were all for him. Stillthe more gloomy he looked, the more her eyes laughed. She could almosthave kissed the fair Englishman, with the golden whiskers, if by sodoing she could have put Rudy in a rage, and made him run out of thehouse. That would have proved how much he loved her. All this wasnot right in Babette, but she was only nineteen years of age, andshe did not reflect on what she did, neither did she think that herconduct would appear to the young Englishman as light, and not evenbecoming the modest and much loved daughter of the miller.The mill at Bex stood in the highway, which passed under thesnow clad mountains, and not far from a rapid mountain stream, whosewaters seemed to have been lashed into a foam like soap suds. Thisstream, however, did not pass near enough to the mill, and thereforethe mill wheel was turned by a smaller stream which tumbled down therocks on the opposite side, where it was opposed by a stonemill dam, and obtained greater strength and speed, till it fell into alarge basin, and from thence through a channel to the mill wheel. Thischannel sometimes overflowed, and made the path so slippery that anyone passing that way might easily fall in, and be carried towardsthe mill wheel with frightful rapidity. Such a catastrophe nearlyhappened to the young Englishman. He had dressed himself in whiteclothes, like a miller's man, and was climbing the path to themiller's house, but he had never been taught to climb, and thereforeslipped, and nearly went in head foremost. He managed, however, toscramble out with wet sleeves and bespattered trousers. Still, wet andsplashed with mud, he contrived to reach Babette's window, to which hehad been guided by the light that shone from it. Here he climbed theold linden tree that stood near it, and began to imitate the voiceof an owl, the only bird he could venture to mimic. Babette heardthe noise, and glanced through the thin window curtain. but when shesaw the man in white, and guessed who he was, her little heart beatwith terror as well as anger. She quickly put out the light, felt ifthe fastening of the window was secure, and then left him to howl aslong as he liked. How dreadful it would be, thought Babette, if Rudywere here in the house. But Rudy was not in the house. No, it was muchworse, he was outside, standing just under the linden tree. He wasspeaking loud, angry words. He could fight, and there might be murder!Babette opened the window in alarm, and called Rudy's name. she toldhim to go away, she did not wish him to remain there."You do not wish me to stay," cried he. "then this is anappointment you expected this good friend whom you prefer to me.Shame on you, Babette!""You are detestable!" exclaimed Babette, bursting into tears."Go away. I hate you.""I have not deserved this," said Rudy, as he turned away, hischeeks burning, and his heart like fire.Babette threw herself on the bed, and wept bitterly. "So much as Iloved thee, Rudy, and yet thou canst think ill of me."Thus her anger broke forth. it relieved her, however: otherwiseshe would have been more deeply grieved. but now she could sleepsoundly, as youth only can sleep.Rudy left Bex, and took his way home along the mountain path.The air was fresh, but cold. for here amidst the deep snow, the IceMaiden reigned. He was so high up that the large trees beneath him,with their thick foliage, appeared like garden plants, and the pinesand bushes even less. The Alpine roses grew near the snow, which layin detached stripes, and looked like linen laid out to bleach. Ablue gentian grew in his path, and he crushed it with the butt endof his gun. A little higher up, he espied two chamois. Rudy's eyesglistened, and his thoughts flew at once in a different direction. buthe was not near enough to take a sure aim. He ascended still higher,to a spot where a few rough blades of grass grew between the blocks ofstone and the chamois passed quietly on over the snow fields. Rudywalked hurriedly, while the clouds of mist gathered round him.Suddenly he found himself on the brink of a precipitous rock. The rainwas falling in torrents. He felt a burning thirst, his head was hot,and his limbs trembled with cold. He seized his hunting flask, butit was empty. he had not thought of filling it before ascending themountain. He had never been ill in his life, nor ever experienced suchsensations as those he now felt. He was so tired that he couldscarcely resist lying down at his full length to sleep, although theground was flooded with the rain. Yet when he tried to rouse himself alittle, every object around him danced and trembled before his eyes.Suddenly he observed in the doorway of a hut newly built under therock, a young maiden. He did not remember having seen this hut before,yet there it stood. and he thought, at first, that the young maidenwas Annette, the schoolmaster's daughter, whom he had once kissed inthe dance. The maiden was not Annette. yet it seemed as if he had seenher somewhere before, perhaps near Grindelwald, on the evening ofhis return home from Interlachen, after the shooting match."How did you come here?" he asked."I am at home," she replied. "I am watching my flocks.""Your flocks!" he exclaimed. "where do they find pasture? There isnothing here but snow and rocks.""Much you know of what grows here," she replied, laughing. "Notfar beneath us there is beautiful pasture land. My goats go there. Itend them carefully. I never miss one. What is once mine remainsmine.""You are bold," said Rudy."And so are you," she answered."Have you any milk in the house?" he asked. "if so, give me someto drink. my thirst is intolerable.""I have something better than milk," she replied, "which I willgive you. Some travellers who were here yesterday with their guideleft behind them a half a flask of wine, such as you have nevertasted. They will not come back to fetch it, I know, and I shall notdrink it. so you shall have it."Then the maiden went to fetch the wine, poured some into awooden cup, and offered it to Rudy."How good it is!" said he. "I have never before tasted suchwarm, invigorating wine." And his eyes sparkled with new life. aglow diffused itself over his frame. it seemed as if every sorrow,every oppression were banished from his mind, and a fresh, free naturewere stirring within him. "You are surely Annette, the schoolmaster'sdaughter," cried he. "will you give me a kiss?""Yes, if you will give me that beautiful ring which you wear onyour finger.""My betrothal ring?" he replied."Yes, just so," said the maiden, as she poured out some more wine,and held it to his lips. Again he drank, and a living joy streamedthrough every vein."The whole world is mine, why therefore should I grieve?"thought he. "Everything is created for our enjoyment and happiness.The stream of life is a stream of happiness. let us flow on with it tojoy and felicity."Rudy gazed on the young maiden. it was Annette, and yet it was notAnnette. still less did he suppose it was the spectral phantom, whomhe had met near Grindelwald. The maiden up here on the mountain wasfresh as the new fallen snow, blooming as an Alpine rose, and asnimble footed as a young kid. Still, she was one of Adam's race,like Rudy. He flung his arms round the beautiful being, and gazed intoher wonderfully clear eyes, only for a moment. but in that momentwords cannot express the effect of his gaze. Was it the spirit of lifeor of death that overpowered him? Was he rising higher, or sinkinglower and lower into the deep, deadly abyss? He knew not. but thewalls of ice shone like blue green glass. innumerable clefts yawnedaround him, and the water drops tinkled like the chiming of churchbells, and shone clearly as pearls in the light of a pale blueflame. The Ice Maiden, for she it was, kissed him, and her kiss sent achill as of ice through his whole frame. A cry of agony escaped fromhim. he struggled to get free, and tottered from her. For a moment allwas dark before his eyes, but when he opened them again it waslight, and the Alpine maiden had vanished. The powers of evil hadplayed their game. the sheltering hut was no more to be seen. Thewater trickled down the naked sides of the rocks, and snow lay thicklyall around. Rudy shivered with cold. he was wet through to the skin.and his ring was gone, the betrothal ring that Babette had given him.His gun lay near him in the snow. he took it up and tried to dischargeit, but it missed fire. Heavy clouds lay on the mountain clefts,like firm masses of snow. Upon one of these Vertigo sat, lurking afterhis powerless prey, and from beneath came a sound as if a piece ofrock had fallen from the cleft, and was crushing everything that stoodin its way or opposed its course.But, at the miller's, Babette sat alone and wept. Rudy had notbeen to see her for six days. He who was in the wrong, and who oughtto ask her forgiveness. for did she not love him with her whole heart?"What strange creatures human beings are," said the parlor catto the kitchen cat. "Babette and Rudy have fallen out with each other.She sits and cries, and he thinks no more about her.""That does not please me to hear," said the kitchen cat."Nor me either," replied the parlor cat. "but I do not take itto heart. Babette may fall in love with the red whiskers, if shelikes, but he has not been here since he tried to get on the roof."The powers of evil carry on their game both around us and withinus. Rudy knew this, and thought a great deal about it. What was itthat had happened to him on the mountain? Was it really a ghostlyapparition, or a fever dream? Rudy knew nothing of fever, or any otherailment. But, while he judged Babette, he began to examine his ownconduct. He had allowed wild thoughts to chase each other in hisheart, and a fierce tornado to break loose. Could he confess toBabette, indeed, every thought which in the hour of temptation mighthave led him to wrong doing? He had lost her ring, and that veryloss had won him back to her. Could she expect him to confess? He feltas if his heart would break while he thought of it, and while somany memories lingered on his mind. He saw her again, as she oncestood before him, a laughing, spirited child. many loving words, whichshe had spoken to him out of the fulness of her love, came like aray of sunshine into his heart, and soon it was all sunshine as hethought of Babette. But she must also confess she was wrong. thatshe should do.He went to the mill he went to confession. It began with akiss, and ended with Rudy being considered the offender. It was such agreat fault to doubt Babette's truth it was most abominable of him.Such mistrust, such violence, would cause them both great unhappiness.This certainly was very true, she knew that. and therefore Babettepreached him a little sermon, with which she was herself muchamused, and during the preaching of which she looked quite lovely. Sheacknowledged, however, that on one point Rudy was right. Hergodmother's nephew was a fop: she intended to burn the book which hehad given her, so that not the slightest thing should remain to remindher of him."Well, that quarrel is all over," said the kitchen cat. "Rudy iscome back, and they are friends again, which they say is thegreatest of all pleasures.""I heard the rats say one night," said the kitchen cat, "thatthe greatest pleasure in the world was to eat tallow candles and tofeast on rancid bacon. Which are we to believe, the rats or thelovers?""Neither of them," said the parlor cat. "it is always the safestplan to believe nothing you hear."The greatest happiness was coming for Rudy and Babette. Thehappy day, as it is called, that is, their wedding day, was near athand. They were not to be married at the church at Bex, nor at themiller's house. Babette's godmother wished the nuptials to besolemnized at Montreux, in the pretty little church in that town.The miller was very anxious that this arrangement should be agreed to.He alone knew what the newly married couple would receive fromBabette's godmother, and he knew also that it was a wedding presentwell worth a concession. The day was fixed, and they were to travel asfar as Villeneuve the evening before, to be in time for the steamerwhich sailed in the morning for Montreux, and the godmother'sdaughters were to dress and adorn the bride."Here in this house there ought to be a wedding day kept," saidthe parlor cat, "or else I would not give a mew for the whole affair.""There is going to be great feasting," replied the kitchen cat."Ducks and pigeons have been killed, and a whole roebuck hangs onthe wall. It makes me lick my lips when I think of it.""To morrow morning they will begin the journey."Yes, to morrow! And this evening, for the last time, Rudy andBabette sat in the miller's house as an engaged couple. Outside, theAlps glowed in the evening sunset, the evening bells chimed, and thechildren of the sunbeam sang, "Whatever happens is best."The sun had gone down, and the clouds lay low on the valley of theRhone. The wind blew from the south across the mountains. it was anAfrican wind, a wind which scattered the clouds for a moment, and thensuddenly fell. The broken clouds hung in fantastic forms upon thewood covered hills by the rapid Rhone. They assumed the shapes ofantediluvian animals, of eagles hovering in the air, of frogsleaping over a marsh, and then sunk down upon the rushing stream andappeared to sail upon it, although floating in the air. An uprootedfir tree was being carried away by the current, and marking out itspath by eddying circles on the water. Vertigo and his sisters weredancing upon it, and raising these circles on the foaming river. Themoon lighted up the snow on the mountain tops, shone on the darkwoods, and on the drifting clouds those fantastic forms which at nightmight be taken for spirits of the powers of nature. Themountain dweller saw them through the panes of his little window. Theysailed in hosts before the Ice Maiden as she came out of her palace ofice. Then she seated herself on the trunk of the fir tree as on abroken skiff, and the water from the glaciers carried her down theriver to the open lake."The wedding guests are coming," sounded from air and sea. Thesewere the sights and sounds without. within there were visions, forBabette had a wonderful dream. She dreamt that she had been married toRudy for many years, and that, one day when he was out chamoishunting, and she alone in their dwelling at home, the young Englishmanwith the golden whiskers sat with her. His eyes were quite eloquent,and his words possessed a magic power. he offered her his hand, andshe was obliged to follow him. They went out of the house andstepped downwards, always downwards, and it seemed to Babette as ifshe had a weight on her heart which continually grew heavier. She feltshe was committing a sin against Rudy, a sin against God. Suddenly shefound herself forsaken, her clothes torn by the thorns, and her hairgray. she looked upwards in her agony, and there, on the edge of therock, she espied Rudy. She stretched out her arms to him, but shedid not venture to call him or to pray. and had she called him, itwould have been useless, for it was not Rudy, only his hunting coatand hat hanging on an alpenstock, as the hunters sometimes arrangethem to deceive the chamois. "Oh!" she exclaimed in her agony. "oh,that I had died on the happiest day of my life, my wedding day. O myGod, it would have been a mercy and a blessing had Rudy travelledfar away from me, and I had never known him. None know what willhappen in the future." And then, in ungodly despair, she castherself down into the deep rocky gulf. The spell was broken. a cryof terror escaped her, and she awoke.The dream was over. it had vanished. But she knew she had dreamtsomething frightful about the young Englishman, yet months hadpassed since she had seen him or even thought of him. Was he stillat Montreux, and should she meet him there on her wedding day? Aslight shadow passed over her pretty mouth as she thought of this, andshe knit her brows. but the smile soon returned to her lip, and joysparkled in her eyes, for this was the morning of the day on which sheand Rudy were to be married, and the sun was shining brightly. Rudywas already in the parlor when she entered it, and they very soonstarted for Villeneuve. Both of them were overflowing withhappiness, and the miller was in the best of tempers, laughing andmerry. he was a good, honest soul, and a kind father."Now we are masters of the house," said the parlor cat.It was early in the afternoon, and just at dinner time, when thethree joyous travellers reached Villeneuve. After dinner, the millerplaced himself in the arm chair, smoked his pipe, and had a littlenap. The bridal pair went arm in arm out through the town and alongthe high road, at the foot of the wood covered rocks, and by the deep,blue lake.The gray walls, and the heavy clumsy looking towers of thegloomy castle of Chillon, were reflected in the clear flood. Thelittle island, on which grew the three acacias, lay at a shortdistance, looking like a bouquet rising from the lake. "How delightfulit must be to live there," said Babette, who again felt the greatestwish to visit the island. and an opportunity offered to gratify herwish at once, for on the shore lay a boat, and the rope by which itwas moored could be very easily loosened. They saw no one near, sothey took possession of it without asking permission of any one, andRudy could row very well. The oars divided the pliant water like thefins of a fish that water which, with all its yielding softness, isso strong to bear and to carry, so mild and smiling when at rest,and yet so terrible in its destroying power. A white streak of foamfollowed in the wake of the boat, which, in a few minutes, carriedthem both to the little island, where they went on shore. but therewas only just room enough for two to dance. Rudy swung Babette roundtwo or three times. and then, hand in hand, they sat down on alittle bench under the drooping acacia tree, and looked into eachother's eyes, while everything around them glowed in the rays of thesetting sun.The fir tree forests on the mountains were covered with a purplehue like the heather bloom. and where the woods terminated, and therocks became prominent, they looked almost transparent in the richcrimson glow of the evening sky. The surface of the lake was like abed of pink rose leaves.As the evening advanced, the shadows fell upon the snow cappedmountains of Savoy painting them in colors of deep blue, while theirtopmost peaks glowed like red lava. and for a moment this light wasreflected on the cultivated parts of the mountains, making them appearas if newly risen from the lap of earth, and giving to thesnow crested peak of the Dent du Midi the appearance of the fullmoon as it rises above the horizon.Rudy and Babette felt that they had never seen the Alpine glowin such perfection before. "How very beautiful it is, and whathappiness to be here!" exclaimed Babette."Earth has nothing more to bestow upon me," said Rudy. "an eveninglike this is worth a whole life. Often have I realized my goodfortune, but never more than in this moment. I feel that if myexistence were to end now, I should still have lived a happy life.What a glorious world this is. one day ends, and another begins evenmore beautiful than the last. How infinitely good God is, Babette!""I have such complete happiness in my heart," said she."Earth has no more to bestow," answered Rudy. And then came thesound of the evening bells, borne upon the breeze over the mountainsof Switzerland and Savoy, while still, in the golden splendor of thewest, stood the dark blue mountains of Jura."God grant you all that is brightest and best!" exclaimed Babette."He will," said Rudy. "He will to morrow. To morrow you will bewholly mine, my own sweet wife.""The boat!" cried Babette, suddenly. The boat in which they wereto return had broken loose, and was floating away from the island."I will fetch it back," said Rudy. throwing off his coat andboots, he sprang into the lake, and swam with strong efforts towardsit.The dark blue water, from the glaciers of the mountains, was icycold and very deep. Rudy gave but one glance into the water beneath.but in that one glance he saw a gold ring rolling, glittering, andsparkling before him. His engaged ring came into his mind. but thiswas larger, and spread into a glittering circle, in which appeared aclear glacier. Deep chasms yawned around it, the water drops glitteredas if lighted with blue flame, and tinkled like the chiming ofchurch bells. In one moment he saw what would require many words todescribe. Young hunters, and young maidens men and women who had sunkin the deep chasms of the glaciers stood before him here inlifelike forms, with eyes open and smiles on their lips. and farbeneath them could be heard the chiming of the church bells ofburied villages, where the villagers knelt beneath the vaultedarches of churches in which ice blocks formed the organ pipes, and themountain stream the music.On the clear, transparent ground sat the Ice Maiden. She raisedherself towards Rudy, and kissed his feet. and instantly a cold,deathly chill, like an electric shock, passed through his limbs. Iceor fire! It was impossible to tell, the shock was so instantaneous."Mine! mine!" sounded around him, and within him. "I kissed theewhen thou wert a little child. I once kissed thee on the mouth, andnow I have kissed thee from heel to toe. thou art wholly mine." Andthen he disappeared in the clear, blue water.All was still. The church bells were silent. the last tone floatedaway with the last red glimmer on the evening clouds. "Thou art mine,"sounded from the depths below: but from the heights above, from theeternal world, also sounded the words, "Thou art mine!" Happy was hethus to pass from life to life, from earth to heaven. A chord wasloosened, and tones of sorrow burst forth. The icy kiss of death hadovercome the perishable body. it was but the prelude before life'sreal drama could begin, the discord which was quickly lost in harmony.Do you think this a sad story? Poor Babette! for her it wasunspeakable anguish.The boat drifted farther and farther away. No one on theopposite shore knew that the betrothed pair had gone over to thelittle island. The clouds sunk as the evening drew on, and it becamedark. Alone, in despair, she waited and trembled. The weather becamefearful. flash after flash lighted up the mountains of Jura, Savoy,and Switzerland, while peals of thunder, that lasted for many minutes,rolled over her head. The lightning was so vivid that every singlevine stem could be seen for a moment as distinctly as in thesunlight at noon day. and then all was veiled in darkness. Itflashed across the lake in winding, zigzag lines, lighting it up onall sides. while the echoes of the thunder grew louder and stronger.On land, the boats were all carefully drawn up on the beach, everyliving thing sought shelter, and at length the rain poured down intorrents."Where can Rudy and Babette be in this awful weather?" said themiller.Poor Babette sat with her hands clasped, and her head boweddown, dumb with grief. she had ceased to weep and cry for help."In the deep water!" she said to herself. "far down he lies, as ifbeneath a glacier."Deep in her heart rested the memory of what Rudy had told her ofthe death of his mother, and of his own recovery, even after he hadbeen taken up as dead from the cleft in the glacier."Ah," she thought, "the Ice Maiden has him at last."Suddenly there came a flash of lightning, as dazzling as therays of the sun on the white snow. The lake rose for a moment like ashining glacier. and before Babette stood the pallid, glittering,majestic form of the Ice Maiden, and at her feet lay Rudy's corpse."Mine!" she cried, and again all was darkness around the heavingwater."How cruel," murmured Babette. "why should he die just as theday of happiness drew near? Merciful God, enlighten my understanding,shed light upon my heart. for I cannot comprehend the arrangementsof Thy providence, even while I bow to the decree of Thy almightywisdom and power." And God did enlighten her heart.A sudden flash of thought, like a ray of mercy, recalled her dreamof the preceding night. all was vividly represented before her. Sheremembered the words and wishes she had then expressed, that whatwas best for her and for Rudy she might piously submit to."Woe is me," she said. "was the germ of sin really in my heart?was my dream a glimpse into the course of my future life, whose threadmust be violently broken to rescue me from sin? Oh, miserable creaturethat I am!"Thus she sat lamenting in the dark night, while through the deepstillness the last words of Rudy seemed to ring in her ears. "Thisearth has nothing more to bestow." Words, uttered in the fulness ofjoy, were again heard amid the depths of sorrow.Years have passed since this sad event happened. The shores of thepeaceful lake still smile in beauty. The vines are full of lusciousgrapes. Steamboats, with waving flags, pass swiftly by.Pleasure boats, with their swelling sails, skim lightly over thewatery mirror, like white butterflies. The railway is opened beyondChillon, and goes far into the deep valley of the Rhone. At everystation strangers alight with red bound guide books in their hands, inwhich they read of every place worth seeing. They visit Chillon, andobserve on the lake the little island with the three acacias, and thenread in their guide book the story of the bridal pair who, in the year1856, rowed over to it. They read that the two were missing till thenext morning, when some people on the shore heard the despairing criesof the bride, and went to her assistance, and by her were told ofthe bridegroom's fate.But the guide book does not speak of Babette's quiet lifeafterwards with her father, not at the mill strangers dwell therenow but in a pretty house in a row near the station. On many anevening she sits at her window, and looks out over the chestnut treesto the snow capped mountains on which Rudy once roamed. She looks atthe Alpine glow in the evening sky, which is caused by the childrenof the sun retiring to rest on the mountain tops. and again theybreathe their song of the traveller whom the whirlwind could depriveof his cloak but not of his life. There is a rosy tint on the mountainsnow, and there are rosy gleams in each heart in which dwells thethought, "God permits nothing to happen, which is not the best forus." But this is not often revealed to all, as it was revealed toBabette in her wonderful dream.