Once on a time there was a man, who had to drive his sledge to the woodfor fuel. So a bear met him."Out with your horse," said the bear, "or I'll strike all your sheepdead by summer.""Oh! heaven help me then," said the man. "There's not a stick offirewood in the house. You must let me drive home a load of fuel, else weshall be frozen to death. I'll bring the horse to you tomorrowmorning."Yes, on those terms he might drive the wood home. That was a bargain.But Bruin said if he didn't come back, he should lose all his sheep bysummer.So the man got the wood on the sledge and rattled homewards, but hewasn't over pleased at the bargain you may fancy. So just then a fox methim."Why, what's the matter?" said the fox. "Why are you so down in themouth?""Oh, if you want to know," said the man, "I met a bear up yonder in thewood, and I had to give my word to him to bring Dobbin back tomorrow, atthis very hour. for if he didn't get him, he said he would tear all mysheep to death by summer.""Stuff, nothing worse than that," said the fox. "If you'll give me yourfattest wether, I'll soon set you free. See if I don't."Yes, the man gave his word, and swore he would keep it too."Well, when you come with Dobbin tomorrow for the bear," said the fox,"I'll make a clatter up in that heap of stones yonder, and so when thebear asks what that noise is, you must say 'tis Peter the Marksman, who isthe best shot in the world. And after that you must help yourself."Next day off set the man, and when he met the bear, something began tomake a clatter up in the heap of stones."Hist! What's that?" said the bear."Oh! that's Peter the Marksman, to be sure," said the man. "He's thebest shot in the world. I know him by his voice.""Have you seen any bears about here, Eric?" shouted out a voice in thewood."Say No!" said the bear."No, I haven't seen any," said Eric."What's that then that stands alongside your sledge?" bawled out thevoice in the wood."Say it's an old fir stump," said the bear."Oh, it's only an old fir stump," said the man."Such fir stumps we take in our country and roll them on our sledges,"bawled out the voice. "If you can't do it yourself, I'll come and helpyou.""Say you can help yourself, and roll me up on the sledge," said thebear."No, thank ye, I can help myself well enough," said the man, and rolledthe bear onto the sledge."Such fir stumps we always bind fast on our sledges in our part of theworld," bawled out the voice. "Shall I come and help you?""Say you can help yourself, and bind me fast, do." said the bear."No, thanks, I can help myself well enough," said the man, who set tobinding Bruin fast with all the ropes he had, so that at last the bearcouldn't stir a paw."Such fir stumps we always drive our axes into in our part of theworld," bawled out the voice, "for then we guide them better going downthe steep pitches.""Pretend to drive your axe into me, do now," said the bear.Then the man took up his axe, and at one blow split the bear's skull,so that Bruin lay dead in a trice, and so the man and the fox were greatfriends, and on the best terms. But when they came near the farm, the foxsaid, "I've no mind to go right home with you, for I can't say I like yourtykes, so I'll just wait here, and you can bring the wether to me, butmind and pick out one nice and fat."Yes, the man would be sure to do that, and thanked the fox much for hishelp. So when he had put up Dobbin, he went across to the sheep stall."Whither away, now?" asked his old dame."Oh!" said the man, "I'm only going to the sheep stall to fetch a fatwether for that cunning fox who set our Dobbin free. I gave him my word Iwould.""Wether, indeed," said the old dame. "Never a one shall that thief of afox get. Haven't we got Dobbin safe and the bear into the bargain. And asfor the fox, I'll be bound he's stolen more of our geese than the wetheris worth. And even if he hasn't stolen them, he will. No, no. take a braceof your swiftest hounds in a sack, and slip them loose after him. Andthen, perhaps, we shall be rid of this robbing Reynard."Well, the man thought that good advice. so he took two fleet redhounds, put them into a sack, and set off with them."Have you brought the wether?" said the fox."Yes, come and take it," said the man, as he untied the sack and letslip the hounds." Huff!" said the fox, and gave a great spring. "True it is what theold saw says, 'Well done is often ill paid.' And now, too, I see the truthof another saying, 'The worst foes are those of one's own house.'"That was what the fox said as he ran off, and saw the red fox hounds athis heels.