There was once a young man who was studying to be a poet. Hewanted to become one by Easter, and to marry, and to live by poetry.To write poems, he knew, only consists in being able to inventsomething. but he could not invent anything. He had been born toolate everything had been taken up before he came into the world,and everything had been written and told about."Happy people who were born a thousand years ago!" said he. "Itwas an easy matter for them to become immortal. Happy even was hewho was born a hundred years ago, for then there was still somethingabout which a poem could be written. Now the world is written out, andwhat can I write poetry about?"Then he studied till he became ill and wretched, the wretched man!No doctor could help him, but perhaps the wise woman could. Shelived in the little house by the wayside, where the gate is that sheopened for those who rode and drove. But she could do more than unlockthe gate. She was wiser than the doctor who drives in his own carriageand pays tax for his rank."I must go to her," said the young man.The house in which she dwelt was small and neat, but dreary tobehold, for there were no flowers near it no trees. By the door stooda bee hive, which was very useful. There was also a littlepotato field, very useful, and an earth bank, with sloe bushes uponit, which had done blossoming, and now bore fruit, sloes, that drawone's mouth together if one tastes them before the frost has touchedthem."That's a true picture of our poetryless time, that I see beforeme now," thought the young man. and that was at least a thought, agrain of gold that he found by the door of the wise woman."Write that down!" said she. "Even crumbs are bread. I know whyyou come hither. You cannot invent anything, and yet you want to bea poet by Easter.""Everything has been written down," said he. "Our time is notthe old time.""No," said the woman. "In the old time wise women were burnt,and poets went about with empty stomachs, and very much out at elbows.The present time is good, it is the best of times. but you have notthe right way of looking at it. Your ear is not sharpened to hear, andI fancy you do not say the Lord's Prayer in the evening. There isplenty here to write poems about, and to tell of, for any one whoknows the way. You can read it in the fruits of the earth, you candraw it from the flowing and the standing water. but you mustunderstand how you must understand how to catch a sunbeam. Now justyou try my spectacles on, and put my ear trumpet to your ear, and thenpray to God, and leave off thinking of yourself."The last was a very difficult thing to do more than a wisewoman ought to ask.He received the spectacles and the ear trumpet, and was postedin the middle of the potato field. She put a great potato into hishand. Sounds came from within it. there came a song with words, thehistory of the potato, an every day story in ten parts, an interestingstory. And ten lines were enough to tell it in.And what did the potato sing?She sang of herself and of her family, of the arrival of thepotato in Europe, of the misrepresentation to which she had beenexposed before she was acknowledged, as she is now, to be a greatertreasure than a lump of gold."We were distributed, by the King's command, from thecouncil houses through the various towns, and proclamation was made ofour great value. but no one believed in it, or even understood howto plant us. One man dug a hole in the earth and threw in his wholebushel of potatoes. another put one potato here and another there inthe ground, and expected that each was to come up a perfect tree, fromwhich he might shake down potatoes. And they certainly grew, andproduced flowers and green watery fruit, but it all withered away.Nobody thought of what was in the ground the blessing the potato.Yes, we have endured and suffered, that is to say, our forefathershave. they and we, it is all one."What a story it was!"Well, and that will do," said the woman. "Now look at the sloebush.""We have also some near relations in the home of the potatoes, buthigher towards the north than they grew," said the Sloes. "Therewere Northmen, from Norway, who steered westward through mist andstorm to an unknown land, where, behind ice and snow, they foundplants and green meadows, and bushes with blue black grapes sloebushes. The grapes were ripened by the frost just as we are. Andthey called the land 'wine land,' that is, 'Groenland,' or'Sloeland.'""That is quite a romantic story," said the young man."Yes, certainly. But now come with me," said the wise woman, andshe led him to the bee hive.He looked into it. What life and labor! There were bees standingin all the passages, waving their wings, so that a wholesome draughtof air might blow through the great manufactory. that was theirbusiness. Then there came in bees from without, who had been born withlittle baskets on their feet. they brought flower dust, which waspoured out, sorted, and manufactured into honey and wax. They flewin and out. The queen bee wanted to fly out, but then all the otherbees must have gone with her. It was not yet the time for that, butstill she wanted to fly out. so the others bit off her majesty'swings, and she had to stay where she was."Now get upon the earth bank," said the wise woman. "Come and lookout over the highway, where you can see the people.""What a crowd it is!" said the young man. "One story afteranother. It whirls and whirls! It's quite a confusion before myeyes. I shall go out at the back.""No, go straight forward," said the woman. "Go straight into thecrowd of people. look at them in the right way. Have an ear to hearand the right heart to feel, and you will soon invent something.But, before you go away, you must give me my spectacles and myear trumpet again."And so saying, she took both from him."Now I do not see the smallest thing," said the young man, "andnow I don't hear anything more.""Why, then, you can't be a poet by Easter," said the wise woman."But, by what time can I be one?" asked he."Neither by Easter nor by Whitsuntide! You will not learn how toinvent anything.""What must I do to earn my bread by poetry?""You can do that before Shrove Tuesday. Hunt the poets! Kill theirwritings and thus you will kill them. Don't be put out of countenance.Strike at them boldly, and you'll have carnival cake, on which you cansupport yourself and your wife too.""What one can invent!" cried the young man. And so he hit outboldly at every second poet, because he could not be a poet himself.We have it from the wise woman. She knows WHAT ONE CAN INVENT.