Once upon a time a great king of the East, named Saman lalposh, hadthree brave and clever sons Tahmasp, Qamas, and Almas ruh baksh.One day, when the king was sitting in his hall of audience, his eldestson, Prince Tahmasp, came before him, and after greeting his father withdue respect, said: 'O my royal father! I am tired of the town. if youwill give me leave, I will take my servants to morrow and will go intothe country and hunt on the hill skirts. and when I have taken some gameI will come back, at evening prayer time.' His father consented, andsent with him some of his own trusted servants, and also hawks, andfalcons, hunting dogs, cheetahs and leopards.At the place where the prince intended to hunt he saw a most beautifuldeer. He ordered that it should not be killed, but trapped or capturedwith a noose. The deer looked about for a place where he might escapefrom the ring of the beaters, and spied one unwatched close to theprince himself. It bounded high and leaped right over his head, got outof the ring, and tore like the eastern wind into the waste. The princeput spurs to his horse and pursued it. and was soon lost to the sight ofhis followers. Until the world lighting sun stood above his head in thezenith he did not take his eyes off the deer. suddenly it disappearedbehind some rising ground, and with all his search he could not find anyfurther trace of it. He was now drenched in sweat, and he breathedwith pain. and his horse's tongue hung from its mouth with thirst.He dismounted and toiled on, with bridle on arm, praying and castinghimself on the mercy of heaven. Then his horse fell and surrendered itslife to God. On and on he went across the sandy waste, weeping and withburning breast, till at length a hill rose into sight. He mustered hisstrength and climbed to the top, and there he found a giant tree whosefoot kept firm the wrinkled earth, and whose crest touched the veryheaven. Its branches had put forth a glory of leaves, and there weregrass and a spring underneath it, and flowers of many colours.Gladdened by this sight, he dragged himself to the water's edge, drankhis fill, and returned thanks for his deliverance from thirst.He looked about him and, to his amazement, saw close by a royal seat.While he was pondering what could have brought this into the mercilessdesert, a man drew near who was dressed like a faqir, and had bare headand feet, but walked with the free carriage of a person of rank. Hisface was kind, and wise and thoughtful, and he came on and spoke to theprince.'O good youth! how did you come here? Who are you? Where do you comefrom?'The prince told everything just as it had happened to him, and thenrespectfully added: 'I have made known my own circumstances to you, andnow I venture to beg you to tell me your own. Who are you? How did youcome to make your dwelling in this wilderness?'To this the faqir replied: 'O youth! it would be best for you to havenothing to do with me and to know nothing of my fortunes, for my storyis fit neither for telling nor for hearing.' The prince, however,pleaded so hard to be told, that at last there was nothing to be donebut to let him hear.'Learn and know, O young man! that I am King Janangir of Babylon,and that once I had army and servants, family and treasure. untoldwealth and belongings. The Most High God gave me seven sons who grew upwell versed in all princely arts. My eldest son heard from travellersthat in Turkistan, on the Chinese frontier, there is a king namedQuimus, the son of Timus, and that he has an only child, a daughternamed Mihr afruz, who, under all the azure heaven, is unrivalled forbeauty. Princes come from all quarters to ask her hand, and on one andall she imposes a condition. She says to them: "I know a riddle. andI will marry anyone who answers it, and will bestow on him all mypossessions. But if a suitor cannot answer my question I cut off hishead and hang it on the battlements of the citadel." The riddle she asksis, "What did the rose do to the cypress?"'Now, when my son heard this tale, he fell in love with that unseengirl, and he came to me lamenting and bewailing himself. Nothing that Icould say had the slightest effect on him. I said: "Oh my son! if theremust be fruit of this fancy of yours, I will lead forth a great armyagainst King Quimus. If he will give you his daughter freely, welland good. and if not, I will ravage his kingdom and bring her away byforce." This plan did not please him. he said: "It is not right to lay akingdom waste and to destroy a palace so that I may attain my desire.I will go alone. I will answer the riddle, and win her in this way."At last, out of pity for him, I let him go. He reached the city of KingQuimus. He was asked the riddle and could not give the true answer. andhis head was cut off and hung upon the battlements. Then I mourned himin black raiment for forty days.After this another and another of my sons were seized by the samedesire, and in the end all my seven sons went, and all were killed. Ingrief for their death I have abandoned my throne, and I abide here inthis desert, withholding my hand from all State business and wearingmyself away in sorrow.'Prince Tahmasp listened to this tale, and then the arrow of love forthat unseen girl struck his heart also. Just at this moment of hisill fate his people came up, and gathered round him like moths round alight. They brought him a horse, fleet as the breeze of the dawn. he sethis willing foot in the stirrup of safety and rode off. As the dayswent by the thorn of love rankled in his heart, and he became the veryexample of lovers, and grew faint and feeble. At last his confidantssearched his heart and lifted the veil from the face of his love, andthen set the matter before his father, King Saman lal posh. 'Your son,Prince Tahmasp, loves distractedly the Princess Mihr afruz, daughter ofKing Quimus, son of Timus.' Then they told the king all about her andher doings. A mist of sadness clouded the king's mind, and he said tohis son: 'If this thing is so, I will in the first place send a courierwith friendly letters to King Quimus, and will ask the hand of hisdaughter for you. I will send an abundance of gifts, and a string ofcamels laden with flashing stones and rubies of Badakhsham In this wayI will bring her and her suite, and I will give her to you to be yoursolace. But if King Quimus is unwilling to give her to you, I will poura whirlwind of soldiers upon him, and I will bring to you, in this way,that most consequential of girls.' But the prince said that this planwould not be right, and that he would go himself, and would answer theriddle. Then the king's wise men said: 'This is a very weighty matter.it would be best to allow the prince to set out accompanied by somepersons in whom you have confidence. Maybe he will repent and comeback.' So King Saman ordered all preparations for the journey to bemade, and then Prince Tahmasp took his leave and set out, accompaniedby some of the courtiers, and taking with him a string of two humped andraven eyed camels laden with jewels, and gold, and costly stuffs.By stage after stage, and after many days' journeying, he arrived at thecity of King Quimus. What did he see? A towering citadel whose foot keptfirm the wrinkled earth, and whose battlements touched the blue heaven.He saw hanging from its battlements many heads, but it had not the leasteffect upon him that these were heads of men of rank. he listened to noadvice about laying aside his fancy, but rode up to the gate and on intothe heart of the city. The place was so splendid that the eyes of theages have never seen its like, and there, in an open square, he founda tent of crimson satin set up, and beneath it two jewelled drums withjewelled sticks. These drums were put there so that the suitors of theprincess might announce their arrival by beating on them, after whichsome one would come and take them to the king's presence. The sight ofthe drums stirred the fire of Prince Tahmasp's love. He dismounted,and moved towards them. but his companions hurried after and begged himfirst to let them go and announce him to the king, and said that then,when they had put their possessions in a place of security, theywould enter into the all important matter of the princess. The prince,however, replied that he was there for one thing only. that his firstduty was to beat the drums and announce himself as a suitor, when hewould be taken, as such, to the king, who would then give him properlodgment. So he struck upon the drums, and at once summoned an officerwho took him to King Quimus.When the king saw how very young the prince looked, and that he wasstill drinking of the fountain of wonder, he said: 'O youth! leave asidethis fancy which my daughter has conceived in the pride of her beauty.No one can answer er her riddle, and she has done to death many men whohad had no pleasure in life nor tasted its charms. God forbid that yourspring also should be ravaged by the autumn winds of martyrdom.' All hisurgency, however, had no effect in making the prince withdraw. At lengthit was settled between them that three days should be given to pleasanthospitality and that then should follow what had to be said and done.Then the prince went to his own quarters and was treated as became hisstation.King Quimus now sent for his daughter and for her mother, Gulrukh,and talked to them. He said to Mibrafruz: 'Listen to me, you cruelflirt! Why do you persist in this folly? Now there has come to ask yourhand a prince of the east, so handsome that the very sun grows modestbefore the splendour of his face. he is rich, and he has brought goldand jewels, all for you, if you will marry him. A better husband youwill not find.'But all the arguments of father and mother were wasted, for her onlyanswer was: 'O my father! I have sworn to myself that I will not marry,even if a thousand years go by, unless someone answers my riddle, andthat I will give myself to that man only who does answer it.'The three days passed. then the riddle was asked: 'What did the rose doto the cypress?' The prince had an eloquent tongue, which could split ahair, and without hesitation he replied to her with a verse: 'Only theOmnipotent has knowledge of secrets. if any man says, "I know" do notbelieve him.'Then a servant fetched in the polluted, blue eyed headsman, who asked:'Whose sun of life has come near its setting?' took the prince by thearm, placed him upon the cloth of execution, and then, all mercilessand stony hearted, cut his head from his body and hung it on thebattlements.The news of the death of Prince Tahmasp plunged his father into despairand stupefaction. He mourned for him in black raiment for forty days.and then, a few days later, his second son, Prince Qamas, extracted fromhim leave to go too. and he, also, was put to death. One son only nowremained, the brave, eloquent, happy natured Prince Almas ruh bakhsh.One day, when his father sat brooding over his lost children, Almas camebefore him and said: 'O father mine! the daughter of King Quimus hasdone my two brothers to death. I wish to avenge them upon her.' Thesewords brought his father to tears. 'O light of your father!' he cried,'I have no one left but you, and now you ask me to let you go to yourdeath.''Dear father!' pleaded the prince, 'until I have lowered the pride ofthat beauty, and have set her here before you, I cannot settle down orindeed sit down off my feet.'In the end he, too, got leave to go. but he went a without a followingand alone. Like his brothers, he made the long journey to the city ofQuimus the son of Timus. like them he saw the citadel, but he saw therethe heads of Tahmasp and Qamas. He went about in the city, saw the tentand the drums, and then went out again to a village not far off. Here hefound out a very old man who had a wife 120 years old, or rather more.Their lives were coming to their end, but they had never beheld face ofchild of their own. They were glad when the prince came to their house,and they dealt with him as with a son. He put all his belongings intotheir charge, and fastened his horse in their out house. Then he askedthem not to speak of him to anyone, and to keep his affairs secret. Heexchanged his royal dress for another, and next morning, just as the sunlooked forth from its eastern oratory, he went again into the city.He turned over in his mind without ceasing how he was to find out themeaning of the riddle, and to give them a right answer, and who couldhelp him, and how to avenge his brothers. He wandered about the city,but heard nothing of service, for there was no one in all that land whounderstood the riddle of Princess Mihr afruz.One day he thought he would go to her own palace and see if he couldlearn anything there, so he went out to her garden house. It was a verysplendid place, with a wonderful gateway, and walls like Alexander'sramparts. Many gate keepers were on guard, and there was no chance ofpassing them. His heart was full of bitterness, but he said to himself:'All will be well! it is here I shall get what I want.' He went roundoutside the garden wall hoping to find a gap, and he made supplicationin the Court of Supplications and prayed, 'O Holder of the hand of thehelpless! show me my way.'While he prayed he bethought himself that he could get into the gardenwith a stream of inflowing water. He looked carefully round, fearing tobe seen, stripped, slid into the stream and was carried within the greatwalls. There he hid himself till his loin cloth was dry. The garden wasa very Eden, with running water amongst its lawns, with flowers and thelament of doves and the jug jug of nightingales. It was a place to stealthe senses from the brain, and he wandered about and saw the house, butthere seemed to be no one there. In the forecourt was a royal seat ofpolished jasper, and in the middle of the platform was a basin of purestwater that flashed like a mirror. He pleased himself with these sightsfor a while, and then went back to the garden and hid himself from thegardeners and passed the night. Next morning he put on the appearanceof a madman and wandered about till he came to a lawn where severalpert faced girls were amusing themselves. On a throne, jewelled andoverspread with silken stuffs, sat a girl the splendour of whose beautylighted up the place, and whose ambergris and attar perfumed the wholeair. 'That must be Mihrafruz,' he thought, 'she is indeed lovely.' Justthen one of the attendants came to the water's edge to fill a cup, andthough the prince was in hiding, his face was reflected in the water.When she saw this image she was frightened, and let her cup fall intothe stream, and thought, 'Is it an angel, or a peri, or a man?' Fear andtrembling took hold of her, and she screamed as women scream. Then someof the other girls came and took her to the princess who asked: 'What isthe matter, pretty one?''O princess! I went for water, and I saw an image, and I was afraid.'So another girl went to the water and saw the same thing, and came backwith the same story. The princess wished to see for herself. she roseand paced to the spot with the march of a prancing peacock. When shesaw the image she said to her nurse: 'Find out who is reflected inthe water, and where he lives.' Her words reached the prince's ear, helifted up his head. she saw him and beheld beauty such as she had neverseen before. She lost a hundred hearts to him, and signed to her nurseto bring him to her presence. The prince let himself be persuaded to gowith the nurse, but when the princess questioned him as to who he wasand how he had got into her garden, he behaved like a man out of hismind sometimes smiling, sometimes crying, and saying: 'I am hungry,' Orwords misplaced and random, civil mixed with the rude.'What a pity!' said the princess, 'he is mad!' As she liked him shesaid: 'He is my madman. let no one hurt him.' She took him to her houseand told him not to go away, for that she would provide for all hiswants. The prince thought, 'It would be excellent if here, in her veryhouse, I could get the answer to her riddle. but I must be silent, onpain of death.'Now in the princess's household there was a girl called Dil aram .she it was who had first seen the image of the prince. She came to lovehim very much, and she spent day and night thinking how she could makeher affection known to him. One day she escaped from the princess'snotice and went to the prince, and laid her head on his feet and said:'Heaven has bestowed on you beauty and charm. Tell me your secret. whoare you, and how did you come here? I love you very much, and if youwould like to leave this place I will go with you. I have wealth equalto the treasure of the miserly Qarun.' But the prince only made answerlike a man distraught, and told her nothing. He said to himself, 'Godforbid that the veil should be taken in vain from my secret. thatwould indeed disgrace me.' So, with streaming eyes and burning breast,Dil aram arose and went to her house and lamented and fretted.Now whenever the princess commanded the prince's attendance, Dil aram,of all the girls, paid him attention and waited on him best. Theprincess noticed this, and said: 'O Dil aram! you must take my madmaninto your charge and give him whatever he wants.' This was the verything Dilaram had prayed for. A little later she took the princeinto a private place and she made him take an oath of secrecy, and sheherself took one and swore, 'By Heaven! I will not tell your secret.Tell me all about yourself so that I may help you to get what you want.'The prince now recognised in her words the perfume of true love, and hemade compact with her. 'O lovely girl! I want to know what the rosedid to the cypress. Your mistress cuts off men's heads because of thisriddle. what is at the bottom of it, and why does she do it?' ThenDil aram answered: 'If you will promise to marry me and to keep mealways amongst those you favour, I will tell you all I know, and I willkeep watch about the riddle.''O lovely girl,' rejoined he, 'if I accomplish my purpose, so that Ineed no longer strive for it, I will keep my compact with you. When Ihave this woman in my power and have avenged my brothers, I will makeyou my solace.''O wealth of my life and source of my joy!' responded Dil aram, 'I donot know what the rose did to the cypress. but so much I know that theperson who told Mihr afruz about it is a negro whom she hides under herthrone. He fled here from Waq of the Caucasus it is there you must makeinquiry. there is no other way of getting at the truth.'On hearing thesewords, the prince said to his heart, 'O my heart! your task will yetwear away much of your life.'He fell into long and far thought, and Dil aram looked at him and said:'O my life and my soul! do not be sad. If you would like this womankilled, I will put poison into her cup so that she will never lift herhead from her drugged sleep again.''O Dil aram! such a vengeance is not manly. I shall not rest till I havegone to Waq of the Caucasus and have cleared up the matter.' Thenthey repeated the agreement about their marriage, and bade one anothergoodbye.The prince now went back to the village, and told the old man that hewas setting out on a long journey, and begged him not to be anxious, andto keep safe the goods which had been entrusted to him.The prince had not the least knowledge of the way to Waq of theCaucasus, and was cast down by the sense of his helplessness. He waswalking along by his horse's side when there appeared before him an oldman of serene countenance, dressed in green and carrying a staff,who resembled Khizr. The prince thanked heaven, laid the hands ofreverence on his breast and salaamed. The old man returned the greetinggraciously, and asked: 'How fare you? Whither are you bound? You looklike a traveller.''O revered saint! I am in this difficulty: I do not know the way to Waqof the Caucasus.' The old man of good counsel looked at the young princeand said: 'Turn back from this dangerous undertaking. Do not go. choosesome other task! If you had a hundred lives you would not bring one outsafe from this journey.' But his words had no effect on the prince'sresolve. 'What object have you,' the old man asked, 'in thus consumingyour life?''I have an important piece of business to do, and only this journeymakes it possible. I must go. I pray you, ill God's name, tell me theway.'When the saint saw that the prince was not to be moved, he said:'Learn and know, O youth! that Waq of Qaf is in the Caucasus and is adependency of it. In it there are jins, demons, and peris. You must goon along this road till it forks into three. take neither the right handnor the left, but the middle path. Follow this for a day and a night.Then you will come to a column on which is a marble slab inscribed withCufic characters. Do what is written there. beware of disobedience.'Then he gave his good wishes for the journey and his blessing, and theprince kissed his feet, said good bye, and, with thanks to the Causer ofCauses, took the road.After a day and a night he saw the column rise in silent beauty to theheavens. Everything was as the wise old man had said it would be, andthe prince, who was skilled in all tongues, read the following Cuficinscription: 'O travellers! be it known to you that this column has beenset up with its tablet to give true directions about these roads. Ifa man would pass his life in ease and pleasantness, let him take theright hand path. If he take the left, he will have some trouble, buthe will reach his goal without much delay. Woe to him who chooses themiddle path! if he had a thousand lives he would not save one. it isvery hazardous. it leads to the Caucasus, and is an endless road. Bewareof it!'The prince read and bared his head and lifted his hands in supplicationto Him who has no needs, and prayed, 'O Friend of the traveller! I, Thyservant, come to Thee for succour. My purpose lies in the land of Qafand my road is full of peril. Lead me by it.' Then he took a handful ofearth and cast it on his collar, and said: 'O earth! be thou my grave.and O vest! tee thou my winding sheet!' Then he took the middle roadand went along it, day after day, with many a silent prayer, till he sawtrees rise from the weary waste of sand. They grew in a garden, and hewent up to the gate and found it a slab of beautifully worked marble,and that near it there lay sleeping, with his head on a stone, a negrowhose face was so black that it made darkness round him. His upper lip,arched like an eyebrow, curved upwards to his nostrils and his lowerhung down like a camel's. Four millstones formed his shield, and on abox tree close by hung his giant sword. His loin cloth was fashionedof twelve skins of beasts, and was bound round his waist by a chain ofwhich each link was as big as an elephant's thigh.The prince approached and tied up his horse near the negro's head. Thenhe let fall the Bismillah from his lips, entered the garden and walkedthrough it till he came to the private part, delighting in the greattrees, the lovely verdure, and the flowery borders. In the inner gardenthere were very many deer. These signed to him with eye and foot togo back, for that this was enchanted ground. but he did not understandthem, and thought their pretty gestures were a welcome. After a while hereached a palace which had a porch more splendid than Caesar's, and wasbuilt of gold and silver bricks. In its midst was a high seat, overlaidwith fine carpets, and into it opened eight doors, each having oppositeto it a marble basin.Banishing care, Prince Almas walked on through the garden, when suddenlya window opened and a girl, who was lovely enough to make the moonwrithe with jealousy, put out her head. She lost her heart to the goodlooks of the prince, and sent her nurse to fetch him so that she mightlearn where he came from and how he had got into her private gardenwhere even lions and wolves did not venture. The nurse went, and wasstruck with amazement at the sun like radiance of his face. she salaamedand said: 'O youth! welcome! the lady of the garden calls you. come!' Hewent with her and into a palace which was like a house in Paradise, andsaw seated on the royal carpets of the throne a girl whose brillianceshamed the shining sun. He salaamed. she rose, took him by the hand andplaced him near her. 'O young man! who are you? Where do you come from?How did you get into this garden?' He told her his story from beginningto end, and Lady Latifa replied: 'This is folly! It will make youa vagabond of the earth, and lead you to destruction. Come, cease suchtalk! No one can go to the Caucasus. Stay with me and be thankful, forhere is a throne which you can share with me, and in my society you canenjoy my wealth. I will do whatever you wish. I will bring here KingQulmus and his daughter, and you can deal with them as you will.''O Lady Latifa,' he said, 'I have made a compact with heaven not to sitdown off my feet till I have been to Waq of Qaf and have cleared up thismatter, and have taken Mihrafruz from her father, as brave men take,and have put her in prison. When I have done all this I will comeback to you in state and with a great following, and I will marry youaccording to the law.' Lady Latifa argued and urged her wishes, but invain. the prince was not to be moved. Then she called to the cupbearersfor new wine, for she thought that when his head was hot with it hemight consent to stay. The pure, clear wine was brought. she filled acup and gave to him. He said: 'O most enchanting sweetheart! it is therule for the host to drink first and then the guest.' So to make himlose his head, she drained the cup. then filled it again and gave him.He drank it off, and she took a lute from one of the singers and playedupon it with skill which witched away the sense of all who heard. Butit was all in vain. three days passed in such festivities, and on thefourth the prince said: 'O joy of my eyes! I beg now that you will bidme farewell, for my way is long and the fire of your love darts flameinto the harvest of my heart. By heaven's grace I may accomplish mypurpose, and, if so, I will come back to you.'Now she saw that she could not in any way change his resolve, she toldher nurse to bring a certain casket which contained, she said, somethingexhilarating which would help the prince on his journey. The box wasbrought, and she divided off a portion of what was within and gave it tothe prince to eat. Then, and while he was all unaware, she put forth herhand to a stick fashioned like a snake. she said some words over it andstruck him so sharply on the shoulder that he cried out. then he made apirouette and found that he was a deer.When he knew what had been done to him he thought, 'All the threads ofaffliction are gathered together. I have lost my last chance!' Hetried to escape, but the magician sent for her goldsmith, who, coming,overlaid the deer horns with gold and jewels. The kerchief which thatday she had had in her hand was then tied round its neck, and this freedit from her attentions.The prince deer now bounded into the garden and at once sought some wayof escape. It found none, and it joined the other deer, which soon madeit their leader. Now, although the prince had been transformed into theform of a deer, he kept his man's heart and mind. He said to himself,'Thank heaven that the Lady Latifa has changed me into this shape, forat least deer are beautiful.' He remained for some time living as a deeramongst the rest, but at length resolved that an end to such a life mustbe put ill some way. He looked again for some place by which he couldget out of the magic garden. Following round the wall he reached a lowerpart. he remembered the Divine Names and flung himself over, saying,'Whatever happens is by the will of God.' When he looked about he foundthat he was in the very same place he had jumped from. there was thepalace, there the garden and the deer! Eight times he leaped over thewall and eight times found himself where he had started from. but afterthe ninth leap there was a change, there was a palace and there was agarden, but the deer were gone.Presently a girl of such moon like beauty opened a window that theprince lost to her a hundred hearts. She was delighted with thebeautiful deer, and cried to her nurse: 'Catch it! if you will I willgive you this necklace, every pearl of which is worth a kingdom.' Thenurse coveted the pearls, but as she was three hundred years old shedid not know how she could catch a deer. However, she went down into thegarden and held out some grass, but when she went near the creature ranaway. The girl watched with great excitement from the palace window, andcalled: 'O nurse, if you don't catch it, I will kill you!' 'I am killingmyself,' shouted back the old woman. The girl saw that nurse totteringalong and went down to help, marching with the gait of a prancingpeacock. When she saw the gilded horns and the kerchief she said: 'Itmust be accustomed to the hand, and be some royal pet!' The prince hadit in mind that this might be another magician who could give him someother shape, but still it seemed best to allow himself to be caught. Sohe played about the girl and let her catch him by the neck. A leash wasbrought, fruits were given, and it was caressed with delight. It wastaken to the palace and tied at the foot of the Lady Jamila's raisedseat, but she ordered a longer cord to be brought so that it might beable to jump up beside her.When the nurse went to fix the cord she saw tears falling from itseyes, and that it was dejected and sorrowful 'O Lady Jamila! this isa wonderful deer, it is crying. I never saw a deer cry before.' Jamiladarted down like a flash of lightning, and saw that it was so. It rubbedits head on her feet and then shook it so sadly that the girl cried forsympathy. She patted it and said: 'Why are you sad, my heart? Why do youcry, my soul? Is it because I have caught you? I love you better than myown life.' But, spite of her comforting, it cried the more. Then Jamilasaid: 'Unless I am mistaken, this is the work of my wicked sisterLatifa, who by magic art turns servants of God into beasts of thefield.' At these words the deer uttered sounds, and laid its head on herfeet. Then Jamila was sure it was a man, and said: 'Be comforted, I willrestore you to your own shape.' She bathed herself and ordered the deerto be bathed, put on clean raiment, called for a box which stood in analcove, opened it and gave a portion of what was in it to the deer toeat. Then she slipped her hand under her carpet and produced a stick towhich she said something. She struck the deer hard, it pirouetted andbecame Prince Almas.The broidered kerchief and the jewels lay upon the ground. The princeprostrated himself in thanks to heaven and Jamila, and said: 'Odelicious person! O Chinese Venus! how shall I excuse myself for givingyou so much trouble? With what words can I thank you?' Then shecalled for a clothes wallet and chose out a royal dress of honour.Her attendants dressed him in it, and brought him again before thetender hearted lady. She turned to him a hundred hearts, took his handand seated him beside her, and said: 'O youth! tell me truly who you areand where you come from, and how you fell into the power of my sister.'Even when he was a deer the prince had much admired Jamila now hethought her a thousand times more lovely than before. He judged that intruth alone was safety, and so told her his whole story. Then she asked:'O Prince Almas ruh bakhsh, do you still wish so much to make thisjourney to Waq of Qaf? What hope is there in it? The road is dangerouseven near here, and this is not yet the borderland of the Caucasus.Come, give it up! It is a great risk, and to go is not wise. It wouldbe a pity for a man like you to fall into the hands of jins and demons.Stay with me, and I will do whatever you wish.''O most delicious person!' he answered, 'you are very generous, and thechoice of my life lies in truth in your hands. but I beg one favour ofyou. If you love me, so do I too love you. If you really love me, do notforbid me to make this journey, but help me as far as you can. Then itmay be that I shall succeed, and if I return with my purpose fulfilled Iwill marry you according to the law, and take you to my own country,and we will spend the rest of our lives together in pleasure and goodcompanionship. Help me, if you can, and give me your counsel.''O very stuff of my life,' replied Jamila 'I will give you things thatare not in kings' treasuries, and which will be of the greatest use toyou. First, there are the bow and arrows of his Reverence the ProphetSalih. Secondly, there is the Scorpion of Solomon (on whom be peace),which is a sword such as no king has. steel and stone are one to it. ifyou bring it down on a rock it will not be injured, and it will cleavewhatever you strike. Thirdly, there is the dagger which the sage Timushimself made. this is most useful, and the man who wears it would notbend under seven camels' loads. What you have to do first is to getto the home of the Simurgh, and to make friends with him. If hefavours you, he will take you to Waq of Qaf. if not, you will never getthere, for seven seas are on the way, and they are such seas that ifall the kings of the earth, and all their wazirs, and all their wise menconsidered for a thousand years, they would not be able to cross them.''O most delicious person! where is the Simurgh's home? How shall I getthere?''O new fruit of life! you must just do what I tell you, and you must useyour eyes and your brains, for if you don't you will find yourself atthe place of the negroes, who are a bloodthirsty set. and God forbidthey should lay hands on your precious person.'Then she took the bow and quiver of arrows, the sword, and the daggerout of a box, and the prince let fall a Bismillah, and girt them allon. Then Jamila of the houri face, produced two saddle bags of ruby redsilk, one filled with roasted fowl and little cakes, and the other withstones of price. Next she gave him a horse as swift as the breeze of themorning, and she said: 'Accept all these things from me. ride till youcome to a rising ground, at no great distance from here, where there isa spring. It is called the Place of Gifts, and you must stay there onenight. There you will see many wild beasts lions, tigers, leopards,apes, and so on. Before you get there you must capture some game. On thelong road beyond there dwells a lion king, alla if other beasts did notfear him they would ravage the whole country and let no one pass. Thelion is a red transgressor, so when he comes rise and do him reverence.take a cloth and rub the dust and earth from his face, then set the gameyou have taken before him, well cleansed, and lay the hands of respecton your breast. When he wishes to eat, take your knife and cut pieces ofthe meat and set them before him with a bow. In this way you will enfoldthat lion king in perfect friendship, and he will be most useful to you,and you will be safe from molestation by the negroes. When you go onfrom the Place of Gifts, be sure you do not take the right hand road.take the left, for the other leads by the negro castle, which isknown as the Place of Clashing Swords, and where there are forty negrocaptains each over three thousand or four thousand more. Their chief isTaramtaq. Further on than this is the home of the Simurgh.'Having stored these things in the prince's memory, she said: 'You willsee everything happen just as I have said.' Then she escorted him alittle way. they parted, and she went home to mourn his absence.Prince Almas, relying on the Causer of Causes, rode on to the Place ofGifts and dismounted at the platform. Everything happened just as Jamilahad foretold. when one or two watches of the night had passed, he sawthat the open ground around him was full of such stately and splendidanimals as he had never seen before. By and by, they made way for awonderfully big lion, which was eighty yards from nose to tail tip,and was a magnificent creature. The prince advanced and saluted it.it proudly drooped its head and forelocks and paced to the platform.Seventy or eighty others were with it, and now encircled it at a littledistance. It laid its right paw over its left, and the prince took thekerchief Jamila had given him for the purpose, and rubbed the dust andearth from its face. then brought forward the game he had prepared, andcrossing his hands respectfully on his breast stood waiting before it.When it wished for food he cut off pieces of the meat and put them inits mouth. The serving lions also came near and the prince would havestayed his hand, but the king lion signed to him to feed them too. Thishe did, laying the meat on the platform. Then the king lion beckoned theprince to come near and said: 'Sleep at ease. my guards will watch.'.So, surrounded by the lion guard, he slept till dawn, when the king lionsaid good bye, and gave him a few of his own hairs and said: 'When youare in any difficulty, burn one of these and I will be there.' Then itwent off into the jungle.Prince Almas immediately started. he rode till he came to the parting ofthe ways. He remembered quite well that the right hand way was short anddangerous, but he bethought himself too that whatever was written on hisforehead would happen, and took the forbidden road. By and by he saw acastle, and knew from what Jamila had told him that it was the Place ofClashing Swords. He would have liked to go back by the way ho hadcome, but courage forbade, and he said, 'What has been preordained frometernity will happen to me,' and went on towards the castle. He wasthinking of tying his horse to a tree which grew near the gate when anegro came out and spied him. 'Ha!' said the wretch to himself, 'this isgood. Taram taq has not eaten man meat for a long time, and is cravingfor some. I will take this creature to him.' He took hold of theprince's reins, and said: 'Dismount, man child! Come to my master. Hehas wanted to eat man meat this long time back.' 'What nonsense areyou saying?' said the prince, and other such words. When the negrounderstood that he was being abused, he cried: 'Come along! I will putyou into such a state that the birds of the air will weep for you.' Thenthe prince drew the Scorpion of Solomon and struck him struck him onthe leathern belt and shore him through so that the sword came outon the other side. He stood upright for a little while, muttered somewords, put out his hand to seize the prince, then fell in two andsurrendered his life.There was water close at hand, and the prince made his ablution, andthen said: 'O my heart! a wonderful task lies upon you.' A second negrocame out of the fort, and seeing what had been done, went back and toldhis chief. Others wished to be doubled, and went out, and of every onethe Scorpion of Solomon made two. Then Taram taq sent for a giant negronamed Chil maq, who in the day of battle was worth three hundred, andsaid to him: 'I shall thank you to fetch me that man.'Chil maq went out, tall as a tower, and bearing a shield of eightmillstones, and as he walked he shouted: 'Ho! blunder head! by whatright do you come to our country and kill our people? Come! make two ofme.' As the prince was despicable in his eyes, he tossed aside his cluband rushed to grip him with his hands. He caught him by the collar,tucked him under his arm and set off with him to Taram taq. But theprince drew the dagger of Timus and thrust it upwards through thegiant's armpit, for its full length. This made Chil maq drop him andtry to pick up his club. but when he stooped the mighty sword shore himthrough at the waist.When news of his champion's death reached Taram taq he put himself atthe head of an army of his negroes and led them forth. Many fell beforethe magic sword, and the prince laboured on in spite of weakness andfatigue till he was almost worn out. In a moment of respite from attackhe struck his fire steel and burned a hair of the king lion. and he hadjust succeeded in this when the negroes charged again and all buttook him prisoner. Suddenly from behind the distant veil of the desertappeared an army of lions led by their king. 'What brings these scourgesof heaven here?' cried the negroes. They came roaring up, and put freshlife into the prince. He fought on, and when he struck on a belt thewearer fell in two, and when on a head he cleft to the waist. Then theten thousand mighty lions joined the fray and tore in pieces man andhorse.Taram taq was left alone. he would have retired into his fort, but theprince shouted: 'Whither away, accursed one? Are you fleeing before me?'At these defiant words the chief shouted back, 'Welcome, man! Come hereand I will soften you to wax beneath my club.' Then he hurled hisclub at the prince's head, but it fell harmless because the prince hadquickly spurred his horse forward. The chief, believing he had hit him,was looking down for him, when all at once he came up behind and clefthim to the waist and sent him straight to hell.The king lion greatly praised the dashing courage of Prince Almas. Theywent together into the Castle of Clashing Swords and found it adornedand fitted in princely fashion. In it was a daughter of Taram taq, stilla child She sent a message to Prince Almas saying, 'O king of the world!choose this slave to be your handmaid. Keep her with you. where yougo, there she will go!' He sent for her and she kissed his feet andreceived the Mussulman faith at his hands. He told her he was going along journey on important business, and that when he came back hewould take her and her possessions to his own country, but that for thepresent she must stay in the castle. Then he made over the fort and allthat was in it to the care of the lion, saying: 'Guard them, brother!let no one lay a hand on them.' He said goodbye, chose a fresh horsefrom the chief's stable and once again took the road.After travelling many stages and for many days, he reached a plain ofmarvellous beauty and refreshment. It was carpeted with flowers roses,tulips, and clover. it had lovely lawns, and amongst them running water.This choicest place of earth filled him with wonder. There was a treesuch as he had never seen before. its branches were alike, but it boreflowers and fruit of a thousand kinds. Near it a reservoir had beenfashioned of four sorts of stone touchstone, pure stone, marble, andloadstone. In and out of it flowed water like attar. The prince feltsure this must be the place of the Simurgh.' he dismounted, turned hishorse loose to graze, ate some of the food Jamila had given him, drankof the stream and lay down to sleep.He was still dozing when he was aroused by the neighing and pawing ofhis horse. When he could see clearly he made out a mountain likedragon whose heavy breast crushed the stones beneath it into putty. Heremembered the Thousand Names of God and took the bow of Salih from itscase and three arrows from their quiver. He bound the dagger of Timusfirmly to his waist and hung the scorpion of Solomon round his neck.Then he set an arrow on the string and released it with such forcethat it went in at the monster's eye right up to the notch. The dragonwrithed on itself, and belched forth an evil vapour, and beat the groundwith its head till the earth quaked. Then the prince took a second arrowand shot into its throat. It drew in its breath and would have suckedthe prince into its maw, but when he was within striking distance hedrew his sword and, having committed himself to God, struck a mightyblow which cut the creature's neck down to the gullet. The foul vapourof the beast and horror at its strangeness now overcame the prince, andhe fainted. When he came to himself he found that he was drenched in thegore of the dead monster. He rose and thanked God for his deliverance.The nest of the Simurgh was in the wonderful tree above him, and in itwere young birds. the parents were away searching for food. They alwaystold the children, before they left them, not to put their heads out ofthe nest. but, to day, at the noise of the fight below, they looked downand so saw the whole affair. By the time the dragon had been killed theywere very hungry and set up a clamour for food. The prince therefore cutup the dragon and fed them with it, bit by bit, till they had eaten thewhole. He then washed himself and lay down to rest, and he was stillasleep when the Simurgh came home. As a rule, the young birds raised aclamour of welcome when their parents came near, but on this day theywere so full of dragon meat that they had no choice, they had to go tosleep.As they flew nearer, the old birds saw the prince lying under the treeand no sign of life in the nest. They thought that the misfortune whichfor so many earlier years had befallen them had again happened and thattheir nestlings had disappeared. They had never been able to find outthe murderer, and now suspected the prince. 'He has eaten our childrenand sleeps after it. he must die,' said the father bird, and flew backto the hills and clawed up a huge stone which he meant to let fall onthe prince's head. But his mate said, 'Let us look into the nestfirst for to kill an innocent person would condemn us at the Day ofResurrection.' They flew nearer, and presently the young birds woke andcried, 'Mother, what have you brought for us?' and they told the wholestory of the fight, and of how they were alive only by the favour of theyoung man under the tree, and of his cutting up the dragon and of theireating it. The mother bird then remarked, 'Truly, father! you were aboutto do a strange thing, and a terrible sin has been averted from you.'Then the Simurgh flew off to a distance with the great stone and droppedit. It sank down to the very middle of the earth.Coming back, the Simurgh saw that a little sunshine fell upon the princethrough the leaves, and it spread its wings and shaded him till he woke.When he got up he salaamed to it, who returned his greeting with joy andgratitude, and caressed him and said: 'O youth, tell me true! who areyou, and where are you going? And how did you cross that pitiless desertwhere never yet foot of man had trod?' The prince told his story frombeginning to end, and finished by saying: 'Now it is my heart's wishthat you should help me to get to Waq of the Caucasus. Perhaps, by yourfavour, I shall accomplish my task and avenge my brothers.' In reply theSimurgh.' first blessed the deliverer of his children, and then went on:'What you have done no child of man has ever done before. you assuredlyhave a claim on all my help, for every year up till now that dragon hascome here and has destroyed my nestlings, and I have never been able tofind who was the murderer and to avenge myself. By God's grace you haveremoved my children's powerful foe. I regard you as a child of myown. Stay with me. I will give you everything you desire, and I willestablish a city here for you, and will furnish it with every requisite.I will give you the land of the Caucasus, and will make its princessubject to you. Give up the journey to Waq, it is full of risk, and thejins there will certainly kill you.' But nothing could move the prince,and seeing this the bird went on: 'Well, so be it! When you wish to setforth you must go into the plain and take seven head of deer, and mustmake water tight bags of their hides and keep their flesh in sevenportions. Seven seas lie on our way I will carry you over them. butif I have not food and drink we shall fall into the sea and be drowned.When I ask for it you must put food and water into my mouth. So we shallmake the journey safely.'The prince did all as he was told, then they took flight. they crossedthe seven seas, and at each one the prince fed the Simurgh When theyalighted on the shore of the last sea, it said: 'O my son! there liesyour road. follow it to the city. Take thee three feathers of mine,and, if you are in a difficulty, burn one and I will be with you in thetwinkling of an eye.'The prince walked on in solitude till he reached the city. He went inand wandered about through all quarters, and through bazaars and lanesand squares, in the least knowing from whom he could ask informationabout the riddle of Mihr afruz. He spent seven days thinking it overin silence. From the first day of his coming he had made friends with ayoung cloth merchant, and a great liking had sprung up between them. Oneday he said abruptly to his companion: 'O dear friend! I wish you wouldtell me what the rose did to the cypress, and what the sense of theriddle is.' The merchant started, and exclaimed: 'If there were notbrotherly affection between us, I would cut off your head for asking methis!' 'If you meant to kill me,' retorted the prince, 'you would stillhave first to tell me what I want to know.' When the merchant saw thatthe prince was in deadly earnest, he said: 'If you wish to hear thetruth of the matter you must wait upon our king. There is no other way.no one else will tell you. I have a well wisher at the Court, namedFarrukh fal, and will introduce you to him.' 'That would beexcellent,' cried the prince. A meeting was arranged between Farrukhfaland Almas, and then the amir took him to the king's presence andintroduced him as a stranger and traveller who had come from afar to sitin the shadow of King Sinaubar.Now the Simurgh had given the prince a diamond weighing thirty misqals,and he ordered this to the king, who at once recognised its value, andasked where it had been obtained. 'I, your slave, once had riches andstate and power. there are many such stones in my country. On my wayhere I was plundered at the Castle of Clashing Swords, and I saved thisone thing only, hidden in my bathing cloth.' In return for the diamond,King Sinaubar showered gifts of much greater value, for he rememberedthat it was the last possession of the prince. He showed the utmostkindness and hospitality, and gave his wazir orders to instal theprince in the royal guest house. He took much pleasure in hisvisitor's society. they were together every day and spent the time mostpleasantly. Several times the king said: 'Ask me for something, that Imay give it you.'One day he so pressed to know what would pleasure theprince, that the latter said: 'I have only one wish, and that I willname to you in private.' The king at once commanded every one towithdraw, and then Prince Almas said: 'The desire of my life is toknow what the rose did to the cypress, and what meaning there is in thewords.' The king was astounded. 'In God's name! if anyone else had saidthat to me I should have cut off his head instantly.' The prince heardthis in silence, and presently so beguiled the king with pleasant talkthat to kill him was impossible.Time flew by, the king again and again begged the prince to ask somegift of him, and always received this same reply: 'I wish for yourMajesty's welfare, what more can I desire?' One night there was abanquet, and cupbearers carried round gold and silver cups of sparklingwine, and singers with sweetest voices contended for the prize. Theprince drank from the king's own cup, and when his head was hot withwine he took a lute from one of the musicians and placed himself on thecarpet border and sang and sang till he witched away the sense of allwho listened. Applause and compliments rang from every side. The kingfilled his cup and called the prince and gave it him and said: 'Nameyour wish! it is yours.' The prince drained off the wine and answered:'O king of the world! learn and know that I have only one aim in life,and this is to know what the rose did to the cypress.''Never yet,' replied the king, 'has any man come out from that questionalive. If this is your only wish, so be it. I will tell you. But I willdo this on one condition only, namely, that when you have heard you willsubmit yourself to death.' To this the prince agreed, and said: 'I setmy foot firmly on this compact.'The king then gave an order to an attendant. a costly carpet overlaidwith European velvet was placed near him, and a dog was led in by agolden and jewelled chain and set upon the splendid stuffs. A band offair girls came in and stood round it in waiting.Then, with ill words, twelve negroes dragged in a lovely woman, fetteredon hands and feet and meanly dressed, and they set her down on the barefloor. She was extraordinarily beautiful, and shamed the glorious sun.The king ordered a hundred stripes to be laid on her tender body. shesighed a long sigh. Food was called for and table cloths were spread.Delicate meats were set before the dog, and water given it in a royalcup of Chinese crystal. When it had eaten its fill, its leavings wereplaced before the lovely woman and she was made to eat of them. She weptand her tears were pearls. she smiled and her lips shed roses. Pearlsand flowers were gathered up and taken to the treasury.'Now,' said the king, 'you have seen these things and your purpose isfulfilled.' 'Truly,' said the prince, 'I have seen things which I havenot understood. what do they mean, and what is the story of them? Tellme and kill me.'Then said the king: 'The woman you see there in chains is my wife. sheis called Gul, the Rose, and I am Sinaubar, the Cypress. One day I washunting and became very thirsty. After great search I discovered a wellin a place so secret that neither bird nor beast nor man could find itwithout labour. I was alone, I took my turban for a rope and my cap fora bucket. There was a good deal of water, but when I let down my rope,something caught it, and I could not in any way draw it back. I shouteddown into the well: "O! servant of God! whoever you are, why do you dealunfairly with me? I am dying of thirst, let go! in God's name." A crycame up in answer, "O servant of God! we have been in the well a longtime. in God's name get us out!" After trying a thousand schemes, I drewup two blind women. They said they were peris, and that their king hadblinded them in his anger and had left them in the well alone.'"Now," they said, "if you will get us the cure for our blindness wewill devote ourselves to your service, and will do whatever you wish."'"What is the cure for your blindness?"'"Not far from this place," they said, "a cow comes up from the greatsea to graze. a little of her dung would cure us. We should be eternallyyour debtors. Do not let the cow see you, or she will assuredly killyou."'With renewed strength and spirit I went to the shore. There I watchedthe cow come up from the sea, graze, and go back. Then I came out ofmy hiding, took a little of her dung and conveyed it to the peris. Theyrubbed it on their eyes, and by the Divine might saw again.'They thanked heaven and me, and then considered what they could do toshow their gratitude to me. "Our peri king," they said, "has a daughterwhom he keeps under his own eye and thinks the most lovely girl onearth. In good sooth, she has not her equal! Now we will get you intoher house and you must win her heart, and if she has an inclinationfor another, you must drive it out and win her for yourself. Her motherloves her so dearly that she has no ease but in her presence, and shewill give her to no one in marriage. Teach her to love you so that shecannot exist without you. But if the matter becomes known to her mothershe will have you burned in the fire. Then you must beg, as a lastfavour, that your body may be anointed with oil so that you may burn themore quickly and be spared torture. If the peri king allows this favour,we two will manage to be your anointers, and we will put an oil onyou such that if you were a thousand years in the fire not a trace ofburning would remain."'In the end the two peris took me to the girl's house. I saw hersleeping daintily. She was most lovely, and I was so amazed at theperfection of her beauty that I stood with senses lost, and did notknow if she were real or a dream. When at last I saw that she was a realgirl, I returned thanks that I, the runner, had come to my goal, andthat I, the seeker, had found my treasure.'When the peri opened her eyes she asked in affright: "Who are you? Haveyou come to steal? How did you get here? Be quick! save yourself fromthis whirlpool of destruction, for the demons and peris. who guard mewill wake and seize you."'But love's arrow had struck me deep, and the girl, too, looked kindlyon me. I could not go away. For some months I remained hidden in herhouse. 'We did not dare to let her mother know of our love. Sometimesthe girl was very sad and fearful lest her mother should come to know.One day her father said to her: "Sweetheart, for some time I havenoticed that your beauty is not what it was. How is this? Has sicknesstouched you? Tell me that I may seek a cure." Alas! there was now no wayof concealing the mingled delight and anguish of our love. from secretit became known. I was put in prison and the world grew dark to my rose,bereft of her lover.'The peri king ordered me to be burnt, and said: "Why have you, a man,done this perfidious thing in my house?" His demons and peris. collectedamber wood and made a pile, and would have set me on it, when Iremembered the word of life which the two peris. I had rescued hadbreathed into my ear, and I asked that my body might be rubbed with oilto release me the sooner from torture. This was allowed, and those twocontrived to be the anointers. I was put into the fire and it was keptup for seven days and nights. By the will of the Great King it left notrace upon me. At the end of a week the pert king ordered the ashes tobe cast upon the dust heap, and I was found alive and unharmed.'Peris who had seen Gul consumed by her love for me now interceded withthe king, and said: "It is clear that your daughter's fortunes are boundup with his, for the fire has not hurt him. It is best to give him thegirl, for they love one another. He is King of Waq of Qaf, and you willfind none better."'To this the king agreed, and made formal marriage between Gul and me.You now know the price I paid for this faithless creature. O prince!remember our compact.''I remember,' said the prince. 'but tell me what brought Queen Gul toher present pass?''One night,' continued King Sinaubar, 'I was aroused by feeling Gul'shands and feet, deadly cold, against my body. I asked her where she hadbeen to get so cold, and she said she had had to go out. Next morning,when I went to my stable I saw that two of my horses, Windfoot andTiger, were thin and worn out. I reprimanded the groom and beat him. Heasked where his fault lay, and said that every night my wife took oneor other of these horses and rode away, and came back only just beforedawn. A flame kindled in my heart, and I asked myself where she could goand what she could do. I told the groom to be silent, and when next Gultook a horse from the stable to saddle another quickly and bring it tome. That day I did not hunt, but stayed at home to follow the matter up.I lay down as usual at night and pretended to fall asleep. When I seemedsafely off Gul got up and went to the stable as her custom was. Thatnight it was Tiger's turn. She rode off on him, and I took Windfoot andfollowed. With me went that dog you see, a faithful friend who neverleft me.'When I came to the foot of those hills which lie outside the city I sawGul dismount and go towards a house which some negroes have built there.Over against the door was a high seat, and on it lay a giant negro,before whom she salaamed. He got up and beat her till she was markedwith weals, but she uttered no complaint. I was dumfounded, for oncewhen I had struck her with a rose stalk she had complained and frettedfor three days! Then the negro said to her: "How now, ugly one andshaven head! Why are you so late, and why are you not wearing weddinggarments?" She answered him: "That person did not go to sleep quickly,and he stayed at home all day, so that I was not able to adorn myself. Icame as soon as I could." In a little while he called her to sit besidehim. but this was more than I could bear. I lost control of myselfand rushed upon him. He clutched my collar and we grappled in a deathstruggle. Suddenly she came behind me, caught my feet and threw me.While he held me on the ground, she drew out my own knife and gave itto him. I should have been killed but for that faithful dog which seizedhis throat and pulled him down and pinned him to the ground. Then Igot up and despatched the wretch. There were four other negroes at theplace. three I killed and the fourth got away, and has taken refugebeneath the throne of Mihr afruz, daughter of King Quimus. I took Gulback to my palace, and from that time till now I have treated her as adog is treated, and I have cared for my dog as though it were my wife.Now you know what the rose did to the cypress. and now you must keepcompact with me.''I shall keep my word,' said the prince. 'but may a little water betaken to the roof so that I may make my last ablution?'To this request the king consented. The prince mounted to the roof,and, getting into a corner, struck his fire steel and burned one of theSirurgh's feathers in the flame. Straightway it appeared, and by themajesty of its presence made the city quake. It took the prince on itsback and soared away to the zenith.After a time King Sinaubar said: 'That young man is a long time on theroof. go and bring him here.' But there was no sign of the prince uponthe roof. only, far away in the sky, the Simurgh was seen carrying himoff. When the king heard of his escape he thanked heaven that his handswere clean of this blood.Up and up flew the Simurgh, till earth looked like an egg resting on anocean. At length it dropped straight down to its own place, wherethe kind prince was welcomed by the young birds and most hospitablyentertained. He told the whole story of the rose and the cypress, andthen, laden with gifts which the Simurgh had gathered from citiesfar and near, he set his face for the Castle of Clashing Swords.The king lion came out to meet him. he took the negro chief'sdaughter  whose name was also Gul in lawful marriage, and then marchedwith her and her possessions and her attendants to the Place of Gifts.Here they halted for a night, and at dawn said good bye to the king lionand set out for Jamila's country.When the Lady Jamila heard that Prince Almas was near, she went out,with many a fair handmaid, to give him loving reception. Their meetingwas joyful, and they went together to the garden palace. Jamila summonedall her notables, and in their presence her marriage with the prince wassolemnised. A few days later she entrusted her affairs to her wazir, andmade preparation to go with the prince to his own country. Before shestarted she restored all the men whom her sister, Latifa, had bewitched,to their own forms, and received their blessings, and set them forwardto their homes. The wicked Latifa herself she left quite alone in hergarden house. When all was ready they set out with all her servants andslaves, all her treasure and goods, and journeyed at ease to the city ofKing Quimus.When King Quimus heard of the approach of such a great company, he sentout his wazir to give the prince honourable meeting, and to ask what hadprocured him the favour of the visit. The prince sent back word that hehad no thought of war, but he wrote: 'Learn and know, King Quimus,that I am here to end the crimes of your insolent daughter who hastyrannously done to death many kings and kings sons, and has hung theirheads on your citadel. I am here to give her the answer to her riddle.'Later on he entered the city, beat boldly on the drums, and wasconducted to the presence.The king entreated him to have nothing to do with the riddle, for thatno man had come out of it alive. 'O king!' replied the prince, 'it is toanswer it that I am here. I will not withdraw.'Mihr afruz was told that one man more had staked his head on herquestion, and that this was one who said he knew the answer. At therequest of the prince, all the officers and notables of the land weresummoned to hear his reply to the princess. All assembled, and the kingand his queen Gul rakh, and the girl and the prince were there.The prince addressed Mihr afruz: 'What is the question you ask?''What did the rose do to the cypress?' she rejoined.The prince smiled, and turned and addressed the assembly.'You who are experienced men and versed in affairs, did you ever know orhear and see anything of this matter?''No!' they answered, 'no one has ever known or heard or seen aught aboutit. it is an empty fancy.''From whom, then, did the princess hear of it? This empty fancy it isthat has done many a servant of God to death!'All saw the good sense of his words and showed their approval. Then heturned to the princess: 'Tell us the truth, princess. who told you ofthis thing? I know it hair by hair, and in and out. but if I tell youwhat I know, who is there that can say I speak the truth? You mustproduce the person who can confirm my words.'Her heart sank, for she feared that her long kept secret was now to benoised abroad. But she said merely: 'Explain yourself.''I shall explain myself fully when you bring here the negro whom youhide beneath your throne.'Here the king shouted in wonderment: 'Explain yourself, young man! Whatnegro does my daughter hide beneath her throne?''That,' said the prince, 'you will see if you order to be brought herethe negro who will be found beneath the throne of the princess.'Messengers were forthwith despatched to the garden house, and afterawhile they returned bringing a negro whom they had discovered in asecret chamber underneath the throne of Mihr afruz, dressed in a dressof honour, and surrounded with luxury. The king was overwhelmed withastonishment, but the girl had taken heart again. She had had time tothink that perhaps the prince had heard of the presence of the negro,and knew no more. So she said haughtily: 'Prince! you have not answeredmy riddle.''O most amazingly impudent person,' cried he, 'do you not yet repent?'Then he turned to the people, and told them the whole story of the roseand the cypress, of King Sinaubar and Queen Gul. When he came to thekilling of the negroes, he said to the one who stood before them: 'You,too, were present.''That is so. all happened as you have told it!'There was great rejoicing in the court and all through the country overthe solving of the riddle, and because now no more kings and princeswould be killed. King Quimus made over his daughter to Prince Almas, butthe latter refused to marry her, and took her as his captive. He thenasked that the heads should be removed from the battlements and givendecent burial. This was done. He received from the king everything thatbelonged to Mihr afruz. her treasure of gold and silver. her costlystuffs and carpets. her household plenishing. her horses and camels. herservants and slaves.Then he returned to his camp and sent for Dil aram, who came bringingher goods and chattels, her gold and her jewels. When all was ready,Prince Almas set out for home, taking with him Jamila, and Dil aramand Gul, daughter of Taram taq, and the wicked Mihr afruz, and allthe belongings of the four, packed on horses and camels, and in cartswithout number.As he approached the borders of his father's country word of his comingwent before him, and all the city came forth to give him welcome. KingSaman lal posh Jessamine, wearer of rubies had so bewept the loss ofhis sons that he was now blind. When the prince had kissed his feetand received his blessing, he took from a casket a little collyrium ofSolomon, which the Simurgh had given him, and which reveals the hiddenthings of earth, and rubbed it on his father's eyes. Light came, and theking saw his son.Mihr afruz was brought before the king, and the prince said: 'This isthe murderer of your sons. do with her as you will.' The king fanciedthat the prince might care for the girl's beauty, and replied: 'You havehumbled her. do with her as you will.'Upon this the prince sent for four swift and strong horses, and had thenegro bound to each one of them. then each was driven to one of the fourquarters, and he tore in pieces like muslin.This frightened Mihr afruz horribly, for she thought the same thingmight be done to herself. She cried out to the prince: 'O Prince Almas!what is hardest to get is most valued. Up till now I have been subjectto no man, and no man had had my love. The many kings and kings sons whohave died at my hands have died because it was their fate to dielike this. In this matter I have not sinned. That was their fate frometernity. and from the beginning it was predestined that my fate shouldbe bound up with yours.'The prince gave ear to the argument from pre ordainment, and as she wasa very lovely maiden he took her too in lawful marriage. She and Jamila,set up house together, and Dil aram and Gul set up theirs. and theprince passed the rest of his life with the four in perfect happiness,and in pleasant and sociable entertainment.Now has been told what the rose did to the cypress.Finished, finished, finished!