Once on a time, but it was a long, long time ago, there were two brothers,one rich and one poor. Now, one Christmas eve, the poor one hadn't so muchas a crumb in the house, either of meat or bread, so he went to hisbrother to ask him for something to keep Christmas with, in God's name.It was not the first time his brother had been forced to help him, and youmay fancy he wasn't very glad to see his face, but he said, "If you willdo what I ask you to do, I'll give you a whole flitch (side) of bacon."So the poor brother said he would do anything, and was full of thanks."Well, here is the flitch," said the rich brother, "and now go straight tohell.""What I have given my word to do, I must stick to," said the other. so hetook the flitch and set off. He walked the whole day, and at dusk he cameto a place where he saw a very bright light."Maybe this is the place," said the man to himself. So he turned aside,and the first thing he saw was an old, old man, with a long white beard,who stood in an outhouse hewing wood for the Christmas fire."Good even," said the man with the flitch."The same to you. whither are you going so late?" said the man."Oh! I'm going to hell, if I only knew the right way," answered the poorman."Well, you're not far wrong, for this is hell," said the old man. "Whenyou get inside they will be all for buying your flitch, for meat is scarcein hell. but mind, you don't sell it unless you get the hand quern whichstands behind the door for it. When you come out, I'll teach you how tohandle the quern, for it's good to grind almost anything."So the man with the flitch thanked the other for his good advice, and gavea great knock at the devil's door. When he got in, everything went just asthe old man had said. All the devils, great and small, came swarming up tohim like ants round an anthill, and each tried to outbid the other for theflitch."Well!" said the man, "by rights my old dame and I ought to have thisflitch for our Christmas dinner. but since you have all set your hearts onit, I suppose I must give it up to you. but if I sell it at all, I'll havefor it that quern behind the door yonder."At first the devil wouldn't hear of such a bargain, and chaffered andhaggled with the man. but he stuck to what he said, and at last the devilhad to part with his quern. When the man got out into the yard, he askedthe old woodcutter how he was to handle the quern. and after he had heardhow to use it, he thanked the old man and went off home as fast as hecould, but still the clock had struck twelve on Christmas eve before hehad reached his own door."Wherever in the world have you been?" said his old dame. "Here have I sathour after hour waiting and watching, without so much as two sticks to laytogether under the Christmas brose.""Oh!" said the man, "I could not get back before, for I had to go a longway, first for one thing, and then for another. but now you shall see whatyou shall see."So he put the quern on the table, and bade it first of all grind lights,then a tablecloth, then meat, then ale, and so on till they had got everythingthat was nice for Christmas fare. He had only to speak the word, andthe quern ground out what he wanted. The old dame stood by blessing herstars, and kept on asking where he had got this wonderful quern, but hewouldn't tell her."It's all one where I got it from. you see the quern is a good one, andthe millstream never freezes. That's enough."So he ground meat and drink and dainties enough to last till Twelfth Day,and on the third day he asked all his friends and kin to his house, andgave a great feast. Now, when his rich brother saw all that was on thetable, and all that was behind in the larder, he grew quite spiteful andwild, for he couldn't bear that his brother should have anything."'Twas only on Christmas eve," he said to the rest, "he was in suchstraits, that he came and asked for a morsel of food in God's name, andnow he gives a feast as if he were count or king."And he turned to his brother and said, "But whence, in hell's name, haveyou got all this wealth?""From behind the door," answered the owner of the quern, for he didn'tcare to let the cat out of the bag.But later on the evening, when he had got a drop too much, he could keephis secret no longer, and brought out the quern and said, "There, you seewhat has gotten me all this wealth."And so he made the quern grind all kind of things. When his brother sawit, he set his heart on having the quern, and, after a deal of coaxing, hegot it. but he had to pay three hundred dollars for it, and his brotherbargained to keep it till hay harvest, for he thought, if I keep it tillthen, I can make it grind meat and drink that will last for years. So youmay fancy the quern didn't grow rusty for want of work, and whenhay harvest came, the rich brother got it, but the other took care not toteach him how to handle it. It was evening when the rich brother got thequern home, and next morning he told his wife to go out into the hayfieldand toss, while the mowers cut the grass, and he would stay at home andget the dinner ready.So, when dinnertime drew near, he put the quern on the kitchen table andsaid, "Grind herrings and broth, and grind them good and fast."So the quern began to grind herrings and broth. first of all, all thedishes full, then all the tubs full, and so on till the kitchen floor wasquite covered. Then the man twisted and twirled at the quern to get it tostop, but for all his twisting and fingering the quern went on grinding,and in a little while the broth rose so high that the man was like todrown. So he threw open the kitchen door and ran into the parlor, but itwasn't long before the quern had ground the parlor full too, and it wasonly at the risk of his life that the man could get hold of the latch ofthe house door through the stream of broth. When he got the door open, heran out and set off down the road, with the stream of herrings and brothat his heels, roaring like a waterfall over the whole farm.Now, his old dame, who was in the field tossing hay, thought it a longtime to dinner, and at last she said, "Well! though the master doesn'tcall us home, we may as well go. Maybe he finds it hard work to boil thebroth, and will be glad of my help."The men were willing enough, so they sauntered homewards. but just as theyhad got a little way up the hill, what should they meet but herrings, andbroth, and bread, all running, and dashing, and splashing together in astream, and the master himself running before them for his life, and as hepassed them he bawled out, "Would to heaven each of you had a hundredthroats! But take care you're not drowned in the broth."Away he went, as though the Evil One were at his heels, to his brother'shouse, and begged him for God's sake to take back the quern that instant.for, said he, "If it grinds only one hour more, the whole parish will beswallowed up by herrings and broth."But his brother wouldn't hear of taking it back till the other paid himdown three hundred dollars more.So the poor brother got both the money and the quern, and it wasn't longbefore he set up a farmhouse far finer than the one in which his brotherlived, and with the quern he ground so much gold that he covered it withplates of gold. and as the farm lay by the seaside, the golden housegleamed and glistened far away over the sea. All who sailed by put ashoreto see the rich man in the golden house, and to see the wonderful quern,the fame of which spread far and wide, till there was nobody who hadn'theard tell of it.So one day there came a skipper who wanted to see the quern. and the firstthing he asked was if it could grind salt."Grind salt!" said the owner. "I should just think it could. It can grindanything."When the skipper heard that, he said he must have the quern, cost what itwould. for if he only had it, he thought he should be rid of his longvoyages across stormy seas for a lading of salt. Well, at first the manwouldn't hear of parting with the quern. but the skipper begged and prayedso hard, that at last he let him have it, but he had to pay many, manythousand dollars for it. Now, when the skipper had got the quern on hisback, he soon made off with it, for he was afraid lest the man shouldchange his mind. so he had no time to ask how to handle the quern, but goton board his ship as fast as he could, and set sail.When he had sailed a good way off, he brought the quern on deck and said,"Grind salt, and grind both good and fast."Well, the quern began to grind salt so that it poured out like water. andwhen the skipper had got the ship full, he wished to stop the quern, butwhichever way he turned it, and however much he tried, it was no good. thequern kept grinding on, and the heap of salt grew higher and higher, andat last down sunk the ship.There lies the quern at the bottom of the sea, and grinds away at thisvery day, and that is the reason why the sea is salt.