The cattle of the farmer living at Deunant, close to Aberdaron, weregrievously afflicted with the "short disease," which is the malady knownin English as the black quarter. Naturally, he thought they werebewitched. Old Beti'r Bont, whose character was by no means abovesuspicion   she was thought to earn her living by stealing babies for thefairies   had called at Deunant when they were feathering geese and hadbegged much for one, but she had been refused, and the farmer concludedshe was taking her revenge by harassing his stock. So he went to old Betiand told her that he would tie her hands and feet and throw her into ariver unless she removed the charm. She vehemently denied possessing anymagical powers, and repeated the Lord's Prayer correctly in proof of herinnocence. The farmer was not altogether convinced even by this, and madeher say, "Rhad Duw ar y da," "God's blessing be on the cattle." Now, ifthis is spoken over bewitched animals, they are always freed from theirdisease, but the farmer's stock was no better even after his invocation,and he was at his wits' end.One night before going to bed he was standing a few steps in front of hishouse, meditating over his trouble. "I cannot imagine why the cattle donot get better," said he out loud to himself."I will tell you," said a squeaky little voice close by him. The farmerturned in the direction of the sound and saw a tiny little man, lookingvery angrily at him. "It is," continued the manikin, "because your familykeeps on annoying mine so much.""How is that?" asked the farmer, surprised and puzzled."They are always throwing the slops from your house down the chimney of myhouse," said the little man."That cannot be," retorted the farmer. "There is no house within a mile ofmine.""Put your foot on mine," said the small stranger, "and you will see thatwhat I say is true."The farmer, complying, put his foot on the other's foot, and he couldclearly see that all the slops thrown out of his house went down thechimney of the other's house, which stood far below in a street he hadnever seen before. Directly he took his foot off the other's, however,there was no sign of house or chimney. "Well, indeed, I am very sorry,"said the farmer. "What can I do to make up for the annoyance which myfamily has caused you?"The tiny little man was satisfied by the farmer's apology, and he said,"You had better wall up the door on this side of your house and makeanother in the other side. If you do that, your slops will no longer be anuisance to my family and myself." Having said this he vanished in thedusk of the night.The farmer obeyed, and his cattle recovered. Ever after he was a mostprosperous man, and nobody was so successful as he in rearing stock in allLleyn. Unless they have pulled it down to build a new one, you can see thehouse with the front door at the back.