Hawk?The crow was in very great distress, for however she tried and whatevershe did, she could not rear a family. No sooner were the young hatched,than the hawk would come and pick them up. In vain did she try to hide hernest in the hollows of a tree or in the thickets of a bush. As sure asdeath would the hawk find them and eat them.Not knowing what to do, she bethought herself and said, "How would itdo if I try and get the hawk to be godmother? For then, being a nearrelation, she is sure to spare my little ones."Said and done. She went out of her place to search for the hawk, andfinding her, she said, "Good morning, sister.""Good morning," replied the hawk."How pleased I should feel," said the crow, "if you would becomegodmother to my children.""With pleasure," replied the hawk. "Why not?" And so they made up acovenant of friendship and of good fellowship between them.Before leaving the hawk, the crow said to her, "Now, sister, I have onerequest to make.""Granted," replied the hawk. "What is it?""I only beg of you to spare my children. Do not eat them when you havefound them.""All right," replied the hawk. "I shall certainly not touch them. Buttell me how they look, so that in case I meet them, I may spare them.""Oh," replied the crow, "mine are the most beautiful creatures in theworld. They are more lovely than any other bird can boast of.""Very well. Rest assured. Go in peace." And they parted.The crow, being quite satisfied with the hawk's promise, began flyingabout the next day trying to find something with which to feed herchildren. The hawk the next morning went about her own business and triedto find some nice little young ones to eat. Flying about, she saw theyoung ones of the thrush, the blackbird, and of other beautiful birds, andshe said to herself, "Surely these are the children of the crow. Look howlovely and beautiful they are. I am not going to touch them."She went all day without finding any little birds but these. And shesaid to herself, "I must keep my word to my sister. I am not going totouch them." And she went to bed hungry. The next day the same thinghappened, and still the hawk kept her word and would not touch them.On the third day she was so hungry that she could scarcely see out ofher eyes. Roaming about, the hawk suddenly lighted upon the nest of thecrow. Seeing the little, miserable, ugly things in the nest, the hawk atfirst would not touch them, although she never dreamt that these uglythings were the children of the crow, so much praised by her for theirbeauty, and thought they must belong to some hideous bird. But what is oneto do when one is hungry? One eats what one gets, and not finding anythingbetter, she sat down and gobbled them up one by one, and then flewaway.Not long after the hawk had left, the crow came in, feeling sure thistime to find her little ones unhurt. But how great was her dismay when shefound the nest empty! First she thought the little birds had tried theirwings and were flying about in the neighborhood, and she went in search ofthem. Not finding them, she began to be a little more anxious, and huntinga little more closely, found on the ground near some rushes some tufts offeathers with little bones and blood. She knew at once that the hawk hadagain been there, feeding on her children.Full of wrath and fury, she went to find the hawk. Meeting her, shesaid, "A nice sister and godmother you are! After you had promised mostfaithfully not to touch my children, no sooner had I turned my back onthem, then you come again and eat them.""I do not understand what you are saying," replied the hawk. "It isyour own fault. You told me your children were the most beautiful in theworld, and those which I have eaten were monsters of hideousness. If I hadnot felt the pinch of hunger so strong, I would not have touched them, notfor anything, such ugly things they were! They nearly made me sick.""Is that the way you keep your promise?" replied the angry crow. "Afterhaving eaten them, you even have the impudence to tell lies and insult me.Off with you! And woe betide you if I ever catch you, I will teach you tobehave properly."From that day on, the hawk, if it gets near the crows, attacks them.And from that day on there is implacable hatred between the crows and thehawks.