Once upon a time there was a dear, brave boy who had nothing on earth buta blind grandmother and a clear conscience. After finishing school hebecame a ship's boy and was about to begin his first journey. He saw thatall his new comrades were gambling with good money, but he had nothing,not even a penny. This saddened him, and he complained to his grandmother.She thought for a while, then limped into her room and returned with asmall mill, which she gave to the boy, saying, "If you say to the mill,'Mill, mill, grind for me. grind this or that for me at once!' then itwill grind for you whatever you want. And when you say, 'Mill, mill, standstill, for I want nothing more!' then it will stop grinding. But saynothing about this, or it will bring you misfortune!"The boy thanked her, said farewell, and boarded his ship. When hiscomrades again began to gamble with their money, he took his mill into adark corner and said, "Mill, mill, grind for me. grind golden ducats forme at once!" and the mill ground out ducats of pure gold that fell ringinginto his leather cap.When the cap was full he said, "Mill, mill, stand still, for I wantnothing more!" and it stopped grinding.He was now the richest of all his comrades.The ship's captain was verymiserly, and whenever there was not enough to eat, the boy had only tosay, "Mill, mill, grind for me. grind fresh bread for me at once!" and itwould grind away until he said the other words. The mill ground outanything for him that he wanted.His comrades often asked him how he got these good things, but he saidonly that he was not at liberty to tell them. However, they continued to presshim, until at last he told them the whole story.It was not long before the evil ship's captain got wind of this, and heimmediately hatched a plot. One evening he called the boy into hiscabin and said, "Fetch your mill and grind out some fresh chickens forme!"The boy went and brought back a basket full of fresh chickens, but thegodless man was not satisfied. He beat the poor boy until he brought themill to him and told him what he had to say to make it grind. However, theboy did not tell him how to make it stop, and the captain did not think toask him about this.Afterward when the boy was standing alone on deck, the captain went to himand pushed him into the sea, not thinking at all about how much care andconcern his father and mother had given for him, nor how his blindgrandmother was hoping for his return. He pushed him into the sea, thensaid that he accidentally had fallen overboard, thinking that this was theend of the story.Then he went into his cabin and said to the mill, "Mill, mill, grindfor me. grind salt for me at once!" and the mill ground out grains of purewhite salt.When the bowl was full the ship's captain said, "That is enough!" but themill continued to grind forth. Whatever the captain said or did, the millground away until the entire cabin was full. He took hold of the mill tothrow it overboard, but received such a blow that he fell to the floor asthough stunned. The mill continued to grind forth until the entire shipwas full and was beginning to sink.Finally the ship's captain grabbed his sword and chopped the mill intotiny pieces. but behold, every little piece became a little mill, and allthe mills ground out grains of pure white salt.It was soon over for the ship. It sank with man and mouse and all themills. These are still grinding out grains of pure white salt at thebottom of the sea. And even if you were to shout out the correct command,they are so deep that they would not hear it. And that is why seawater isso salty.