In ancient times, in the age of foolishness and nonsense, there liveda poor gambler. He was all alone in the world: he had no parents,relatives, wife, or children. What little money he had he spent oncards or cock fighting. Every time he played, he lost. So he wouldoften pass whole days without eating. He would then go around the townbegging like a tramp. At last he determined to leave the village tofind his fortune.One day, without a single cent in his pockets, he set out on hisjourney. As he was lazily wandering along the road, he found a centavo,and picked it up. When he came to the next village, he bought with hiscoin a small native cake. He ate only a part of the cake. the rest hewrapped in a piece of paper and put in his pocket. Then he took a walkaround the village. but, soon becoming tired, he sat down by a littleshop to rest. While resting, he fell asleep. As he was lying on thebench asleep, a chicken came along, and, seeing the cake projectingfrom his pocket, the chicken pecked at it and ate it up. Tickled bythe bird's beak, the tramp woke up and immediately seized the poorcreature. The owner claimed the chicken. but Juan would not give it up,on the ground that it had eaten his cake. Indeed, he argued so well,that he was allowed to walk away, taking the chicken with him.Scarcely had he gone a mile when he came to another village. Therehe took a rest in a barber shop. He fell asleep again, and soon adog came in and began to devour his chicken. Awakened by the poorbird's squawking, Juan jumped up and caught the dog still munching itsprey. In spite of the barber's protest and his refusal to give up hisdog, Juan seized it and carried it away with him. He proceeded on hisjourney until he came to another village. As he was passing by a smallhouse, he felt thirsty: so he decided to go in and ask for a drink. Hetied his dog to the gate and went in. When he came out again, he foundhis dog lying dead, the iron gate on top of him. Evidently, in itsstruggles to get loose, the animal had pulled the gate over. Withouta word Juan pulled off one of the iron bars from the gate and tookit away with him. When the owner shouted after him, Juan said,"The bar belongs to me, for your gate killed my dog."When Juan came to a wide river, he sat down on the bank to rest. Whilehe was sitting there, he began to play with his iron bar, tossingit up into the air, and catching it as it fell. Once he missed, andthe bar fell into the river and was lost. "Now, river," said Juan,"since you have taken my iron bar, you belong to me. You will haveto pay for it." So he sat there all day, watching for people to comealong and bathe.It happened by chance that not long after, the princess came totake her bath. When she came out of the water, Juan approached her,and said, "Princess, don't you know that this river is mine? And,since you have touched the water, I have the right to claim you.""How does it happen that you own this river?" said the astonishedprincess."Well, princess, it would tire you out to hear the story of how Iacquired this river. but I insist that you are mine."Juan persisted so strongly, that at last the princess said that shewas willing to leave the matter to her father's decision. On hearingJuan's story, and after having asked him question after question,the king was greatly impressed with his wonderful reasoning and wit.and, as he was unable to offer any refutation for Juan's argument,he willingly married his daughter to Juan.