There was once a poor man who had three daughters. and as the youngestwas the fairest and most civil, and had the best disposition, her othertwo sisters envied her with a deadly envy, although her father, on thecontrary, loved her dearly. It happened that in a neighboring town, in themonth of January, there was a great fair, and that poor man was obliged togo there to lay in the provisions necessary for the support of his family.and before departing he asked his three daughters if they would like somesmall presents in proportion, you understand, to his means. Rosina wisheda dress, Marietta asked him for a shawl, but Zelinda was satisfied with ahandsome rose.The poor man set out on his journey early the next day, and when hearrived at the fair quickly bought what he needed, and afterward easilyfound Rosina's dress and Marietta's shawl. but at that season he could notfind a rose for his Zelinda, although he took great pains in lookingeverywhere for one. However, anxious to please his dear Zelinda, he tookthe first road he came to, and after journeying a while arrived at ahandsome garden enclosed by high walls. but as the gate was partly open heentered softly. He found the garden filled with every kind of flowers andplants, and in a corner was a tall rosebush full of beautiful rosebuds.Wherever he looked no living soul appeared from whom he might ask a roseas a gift or for money, so the poor man, without thinking, stretched outhis hand, and picked a rose for his Zelinda.Mercy! Scarcely had he pulled the flower from the stalk when therearose a great noise, and flames darted from the earth, and all at oncethere appeared a terrible monster with the figure of a dragon, and hissedwith all his might, and cried out, enraged at that poor Christian, "Rashman! what have you done? Now you must die at once, for you have had theaudacity to touch and destroy my rosebush."The poor man, more than half dead with terror, began to weep and begfor mercy on his knees, asking pardon for the fault he had committed, andtold why he had picked the rose. and then he added, "Let me depart. I havea family, and if I am killed they will go to destruction"But the monster, more wicked than ever, responded, "Listen. one mustdie. Either bring me the girl that asked for the rose or I will kill youthis very moment." It was impossible to move him by prayers orlamentations. the monster persisted in his decision, and did not let thepoor man go until he had sworn to bring him there in the garden hisdaughter Zelinda.Imagine how downhearted that poor man returned home! He gave his oldestdaughters their presents and Zelinda her rose. but his face was distortedand as white as though he had arisen from the dead. so that the girls, interror, asked him what had happened and whether he had met with anymisfortune. They were urgent, and at last the poor man, weeping bitterly,related the misfortunes of that unhappy journey and on what condition hehad been able finally to return home. "In short," he exclaimed, "eitherZelinda or I must be eaten alive by the monster."Then the two sisters emptied the vials of their wrath on Zelinda. "Justsee," they said, "that affected, capricious girl! She shall go to themonster! She who wanted roses at this season. No, indeed! Papa must staywith us. The stupid creature!"At all these taunts Zelinda, without growing angry, simply said, "It isright that the one who has caused the misfortune should pay for it. I willgo to the monster's. Yes, Papa, take me to the garden, and the Lord's willbe done."The next day Zelinda and her sorrowful father began their journey andat nightfall arrived at the garden gate. When they entered they saw asusual no one, but they beheld a lordly palace all lighted and the doorswide open. When the two travelers entered the vestibule, suddenly fourmarble statues, with lighted torches in their hands, descended from theirpedestals, and accompanied them up the stairs to a large hall where atable was lavishly spread. The travelers, who were very hungry, sat downand began to eat without ceremony. and when they had finished, the samestatues conducted them to two handsome chambers for the night. Zelinda andher father were so weary that they slept like dormice all night.At daybreak Zelinda and her father arose, and were served witheverything for breakfast by invisible hands. Then they descended to thegarden, and began to seek the monster. When they came to the rosebush heappeared in all his frightful ugliness. Zelinda, on seeing him, becamepale with fear, and her limbs trembled, but the monster regarded herattentively with his great fiery eyes, and afterward said to the poor man,"Very well. you have kept your word, and I am satisfied. Now depart andleave me alone here with the young girl."At this command the old man thought he should die. and Zelinda, too,stood there half stupefied and her eyes full of tears. but entreaties wereof no avail. the monster remained as obdurate as a stone, and the poor manwas obliged to depart, leaving his dear Zelinda in the monster's power.When the monster was alone with Zelinda he began to caress her, andmake loving speeches to her, and managed to appear quite civil. There wasno danger of his forgetting her, and he saw that she wanted nothing, andevery day, talking with her in the garden, he asked her, "Do you love me,Zelinda? Will you be my wife?"The young girl always answered him in the same way, "I like you, sir,but I will never be your wife."Then the monster appeared very sorrowful, and redoubled his caressesand attentions, and, sighing deeply, said, "But you see, Zelinda, if youshould marry me wonderful things would happen. What they are I cannot tellyou until you will be my wife."Zelinda, although in her heart not dissatisfied with that beautifulplace and with being treated like a queen, still did not feel at all likemarrying the monster, because he was too ugly and looked like a beast, andalways answered his requests in the same manner.One day, however, the monster called Zelinda in haste, and said,"Listen, Zelinda. if you do not consent to marry me it is fated that yourfather must die. He is ill and near the end of his life, and you will notbe able even to see him again. See whether I am telling you the truth."And, drawing out an enchanted mirror, the monster showed Zelinda herfather on his deathbed.At that spectacle Zelinda, in despair and half mad with grief, cried,"Oh, save my father, for mercy's sake! Let me be able to embrace him oncemore before he dies. Yes, yes, I promise you I will be your faithful andconstant wife, and that without delay. But save my father from death."Scarcely had Zelinda uttered these words when suddenly the monster wastransformed into a very handsome youth. Zelinda was astounded by thisunexpected change, and the young man took her by the hand, and said,"Know, dear Zelinda, that I am the son of the King of the Oranges. An oldwitch, touching me, changed me into the terrible monster I was, andcondemned me to be hidden in this rosebush until a beautiful girlconsented to become my wife."